Cyngn Stock: Should You Buy The Nvidia Hype?

Jun 28, 2025, 11:56am EDT

Cyngn (NASDAQ:CYN) stock has surged over 300% in just two trading days after AI chip titan Nvidia named the company in a blog post as one of a select group of robotics innovators using its Isaac robotics platform to build autonomous industrial vehicles. Cyngn specializes in autonomous vehicle technology tailored for industrial and logistics applications. Isaac is Nvidia’s robotics platform that combines AI models for perception, reasoning, and control, serving as an open foundation model for robotic skills and decision-making. Cyngn’s flagship product, DriveMod, retrofits existing industrial vehicles such as forklifts, turning them into autonomous machines.
The announcement from Nvidia comes ahead of Automatica 2025, a major global automation and robotics event where Cyngn is set to showcase its latest technologies. Cyngn’s vehicles, which integrate Nvidia’s Isaac platform with its own DriveMod software, are already operating in live commercial environments, catering to customers in logistics, manufacturing, and automotive sectors. Although these tools could play an increasing role in streamlining operations and reducing labor costs, investors should be cautious when it comes to Cyngn’s stock. But, if you are looking for an upside with a smoother ride than an individual stock, consider the High Quality portfolio, which has outperformed the S&P, and clocked >91% returns since inception.
Cyngn is still in the early stages of commercialization, with Q1 revenue of a mere $47,200, despite strong growth from a small base. Revenue volatility remains a concern. Over the past year, sales actually declined by 34.1%, falling from $0.6 million to $0.4 million, while the broader S&P 500 saw average revenue growth of 5.5%. Cyngn also posted a net loss of $7.6 million in Q1, reflecting continued heavy investment in R&D and scaling up its operations.
The company recently announced a $15 million direct offering at $5.01 per share, providing additional capital but also diluting existing shareholders. With a high cash burn rate, Cyngn may need to raise more funds in the future. Valuation is also stretched. Cyngn trades at a price-to-sales (P/S) ratio of 43.5, compared to 3.1 for the S&P 500. It’s also worth noting that the recent rally was sparked largely by Nvidia’s mention, not an exclusive partnership or contract. Cyngn is one of more than ten companies featured in Nvidia’s blog post, and likely just one of many that will leverage Isaac moving forward. With limited revenue, significant losses, and a recent share issuance, the rally appears driven more by speculation, rather than business fundamentals. (Related: QuantumScape: 40x Upside For QS Stock?)
While you would do well to be cautious about CYN stock for now, you could explore the Trefis Reinforced Value (RV) Portfolio, which has outperformed its all-cap stocks benchmark (combination of the S&P 500, S&P mid-cap, and Russell 2000 benchmark indices) to produce strong returns for investors. Why is that? The quarterly rebalanced mix of large-, mid- and small-cap RV Portfolio stocks provided a responsive way to make the most of upbeat market conditions while limiting losses when markets head south, as detailed in RV Portfolio performance metrics

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 147.8754119873047

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 154.99423217773438

NVDA price the day of article release: 157.72377014160156