Cadence Unveils Millennium M2000 Supercomputer And Nvidia Is All In

May 12, 2025, 04:48pm EDT

At its annual CadenceLIVE event in Silicon Valley last week, EDA and simulation bellwether Cadence Design Systems took the wraps off its most ambitious hardware-software platform for simulation to date: the Millennium M2000 Supercomputer. Purpose-built for AI-accelerated simulation and design, the M2000 is the company’s answer to the rising computational demands of next-generation chip design, systems design, autonomous machines and even life sciences breakthroughs like drug design.
Built in collaboration with Nvidia, and leveraging the latter’s latest Blackwell GPU architecture, the M2000 is more than a spec sheet upgrade—it’s a structural shift in how simulation infrastructure is architected. Cadence’s flagship Solvers for chip and system design, electrothermal simulation, computational fluid dynamics and more, are now running on Nvidia HGX B200 clusters and RTX Pro 6000 Server Edition GPUs, depending on system configuration options, all optimized with Nvidia CUDA-X software. “From biology to chip design, the world’s most complex engineering challenges require simulation at scales and speeds only possible with accelerated computing,” noted Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of Nvidia. “Built with Nvidia Blackwell, CUDA-X and Cadence’s computational software, the Millennium M2000 Supercomputer is a new class of infrastructure: an AI factory for science to drive breakthroughs that will transform discovery across disciplines.”
Here’s what this all means in terms of the broad market impact.
According to Cadence, the M2000 delivers up to 80X performance improvements and 20X lower power consumption, versus traditional CPU-based systems, across a range of simulation workloads. These are not isolated performance increase metrics, however. In real-world scenarios like chip-level power integrity simulations, workloads that previously took hundreds of CPUs and nearly two weeks can now be completed in under a day on a single M2000 system.
Simulation is too often a bottlenecked but critical step in the design process. However, this the kind of performance delta that changes how design teams think about iteration cycles, performance optimization, feature integration, verification and validation, and any number of time-sensitive steps.
“The Millennium M2000 Supercomputer will drive the next leap in AI-accelerated engineering,” said Anirudh Devgan, president and CEO of Cadence. “It’s purpose-built for the most advanced AI models of today and tomorrow, enabling productivity that simply wasn’t feasible before.”
While EDA and system design use cases are traditional areas that will benefit from this simulation speed-up, what’s particularly compelling is how Cadence has positioned the M2000 as a cross-disciplinary platform.
In drug discovery, for instance, the M2000 will be integrated with Cadence’s Orion Molecular Design Platform, enabling more frequent and detailed simulations that accelerate the identification of viable drug candidates. That means more iterative testing, shorter time to insight, and ultimately faster development timelines in pharmaceutical R&D.
In data center and infrastructure planning, the M2000 supports the development of digital twins that model entire compute environments down to the board and rack level. This allows hyperscalers to optimize energy use and thermal dynamics before physical deployment, contributing to reduced operational costs and more sustainable infrastructure.
And for physical AI systems such as robots and autonomous vehicles, as well as the aerospace and automotive industries, this new supercomputer enables virtual wind tunnels and virtual worlds in which to operate, with CFD simulations that allow designers to model and validate behavior under real world physics and conditions, before building an actual prototype.
This diversity of use cases underscores the strategic significance of Cadence’s Millennium platform. The company isn’t just targeting chipmakers—it’s building a simulation platform and environment from silicon to systems, to science.
As the AI arms race accelerates, there’s growing demand for infrastructure that can train, test, and optimize increasingly complex models. The M2000 addresses this by bringing simulation workloads into the realm of AI-native design—where feedback loops are fast enough and granular enough to feed back into model optimization for refinement in near real-time.
In speaking with Michael Jackson, PhD and corporate VP and GM of Cadence’s System Design and Analysis Group, Michael underscored that this matters especially in 3D-IC and advanced packaging, where multiphysics simulations—thermal, electrical, structural—often need to be conducted concurrently. Cadence claims simulations that previously took weeks and hundreds of CPUs can now be performed in a day with Millenium M2000. In my conversations with Cadence CEO Anirudh Devgan, he also pointed out that customers will use this recaptured time to improve product performance and features, drive innovation and improve time to market results. That said, Devgan also feels customers will continue to use more of its new supercomputing resources in Cadence Cloud or on prem, regardless of dramatically faster simulations, because it will enable engineers and designers to do so much more in much less time and with fewer resources.
While the announcement of M2000 stood on its own merits, the strategic relationship behind it came into sharper focus during a conversation on the CadenceLIVE stage between Cadence CEO Anirudh Devgan and Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang. Huang boldly shared that Nvidia is immediately purchasing ten Millenium M2000 systems, which is a sizeable endorsement of the platform’s value. Huang quipped lightly, asking “when can you ship?”, which drew chuckles from the audience.
Jensen described AI infrastructure as “factories for intelligence,” and placed simulation infrastructure like the M2000 at the heart of this new industrial model. He drew parallels to how electrical infrastructure enabled modern industry back in the day, suggesting AI will follow a similar trajectory—driven not just by hardware, but by purpose-built software and systems that operate at massive scale.
The takeaway? This isn’t a side project for Nvidia—it’s part of the company’s own core infrastructure strategy as well.
The Cadence Millennium M2000 marks a meaningful inflection point in simulation infrastructure. And it reflects a broader industry trend as well: the fusion of accelerated compute hardware and domain-specific software into complex but powerful vertically-integrated systems. Cadence and Nvidia are aligning their capabilities with M2000 in a full stack approach to accelerating innovation across industries.
For engineering teams, this means faster design cycles. For infrastructure planners, it means more sustainable data center, plant and office operations. For researchers, it means faster insight and new capabilities to help solve some of mankind’s biggest life sciences challenges.
And for the tech industry at large, it signals that simulation—long an under-appreciated phase in the development lifecycle—is stepping into the spotlight as a central pillar of AI-era innovation.
Dave co-founded and is principal analyst at HotTech Vision And Analysis, a tech industry analyst firm specializing in consulting, test validation and go-to-market strategies for major chip and system OEMs. Like all analyst firms, HTVA provides paid services, research and consulting to many chip manufacturers and system OEMs, including companies mentioned in this article. However, this does not influence his objective coverage.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 117.0324249267578

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 116.62252044677734

NVDA price the day of article release: 122.97102355957033