NVIDIA-Backed Rescale Builds The AI Era’s Digital Engineering Backbone

Apr 07, 2025, 10:00am EDT

Rescale, the digital engineering platform powering the future of innovation and scientific discovery, today announced a $115 million Series D with participation from Applied Ventures, Atika Capital, Foxconn, Hanwha, Hitachi Ventures, Prosperity7, NEC, NVIDIA, Translink Capital, the University of Michigan, and SineWave Ventures—bringing Rescale’s total funding to more than $260 million. Early investors include Sam Altman, Jeff Bezos, Paul Graham, and Peter Thiel. Rescale is on a mission to empower the world’s leading engineers and R&D teams with advanced computing, intelligent data, and applied AI.
"Accelerated computing is the engine of the AI industrial revolution," said Jensen Huang, NVIDIA founder and CEO. “With Rescale’s full-stack NVIDIA software and infrastructure, industries can push the boundaries of AI-driven modeling and simulation—advancing discovery, design, and engineering at an unprecedented pace.”
“Today’s most important breakthroughs depend on how fast engineering and R&D teams can move from idea to insight,” said Joris Poort, founder and CEO of Rescale. “Unfortunately, most teams are using computing infrastructure that wasn’t built for the scale, complexity, or speed to match the rapid pace of technological advancement. Rescale gives every engineer and scientist access to the compute, data, and AI tools they need to accelerate innovation.”
In response to greater demand for new innovative products, enterprises are increasing their investments in technologies that expedite time to market. High-performance computing is now a $50 billion market, simulation software sits at $20 billion, and product lifecycle data management is valued at $30 billion. Yet integrating this increasingly complex tech stack—software, hardware, and data—remains a challenge. Rescale offers a comprehensive platform for integrating compute, data, and AI capabilities into a seamless experience, enabling organizations to focus on innovation and discovery.
Rescale is trusted by industry leaders advancing the frontier in aerospace, automotive, life sciences, energy, manufacturing, semiconductors, and defense. The company’s hundreds of enterprise customers — which include Arm, General Motors, Samsung, SLB, and the U.S. Department of Defense — spend over $1B in infrastructure to power their virtual product development and scientific discovery environments. From accelerating drug development through molecular analysis to optimizing aircraft aerodynamics and enhancing automotive safety through crash simulations, Rescale supports a diverse array of mission-critical use cases. Rescale enables innovators and scientists to bring more advanced products to market with greater efficiency.
“Rescale’s high-performance compute software platform is helping industry-leading companies, including Applied Materials, accelerate innovation through the power of advanced computing and intelligent data,” said Dr. Om Nalamasu, CTO of Applied Materials and President of Applied Ventures. “We’ve experienced firsthand how Rescale’s software product suite can speed our AI physics simulation capabilities and catalyze adoption of our digital twin initiatives. We look forward to building on our successful collaboration with Rescale to empower our engineers and scientists.”
Looking back on 14 years of building Rescale, founder and CEO Joris Poort reflects on the key lessons that have shaped the company’s journey.
Lead with Mission“The most important thing at a high level is having an exciting mission you’re pursuing as a company,” says Joris Poort. “Having a compelling mission helps some of the brightest engineers and scientists do all this innovative stuff—and it keeps you going when things get hard.”
Invest in PeopleAnother important factor is building the best team possible. Joris believes that with a great team, like the one at Rescale, you can tackle any challenge. Investing in people matters.
Long-term commitmentUltimately, being long-term committed leads to much greater success. “Missionaries outperform mercenaries."  Joris adds, “If you are focused on a mission, you know you will outlast somebody who is just doing it because they want to make a bunch of money or start a company for the sake of it. We have always stayed focused on that.
Recognize the MomentPoort also highlights the importance of timing. “If you’re in the market long enough, things will eventually swing in your favor—or against you”, he says. “Right now, there’s a really strong tailwind with AI, and we have an entirely new category with AI physics that we can develop. But it’s been quite a journey to get here.”
When it comes to raising capital, Poort says there was never a template. “It wasn’t necessarily easy, but we did it. The reason behind every investment decision was unique,” he explains. Convincing investors wasn’t about following a playbook.
Rescale’s new funding will expedite growth of its comprehensive digital engineering platform for advanced computing, intelligent data, and applied AI. To support the increasing demand for its platform, Rescale is accelerating the delivery of its roadmap including:
Rapid advancements in AI technologies are changing how every organization seeks to gain a competitive edge. Rescale’s digital engineering platform is reimagining modeling and simulation for the AI era. Rescale’s cloud-native technologies provide customers with agility and automation that fundamentally advance product development and scientific discovery.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 110.39398193359376

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 94.28778076171876

NVDA price the day of article release: 97.61699676513672