‘The Nvidia Way’: A Very Good Review Of The History Of An Influential Company

Mar 12, 2025, 11:37am EDT

The new book shelf in my local library offered up The Nvidia Way, by Tae Kim, a book that’s worth reading. It’s a nice overview of the history of the company and of Jensen Huang, from the founding to publishing. It even gives a pointer to the shift from suits to the all-important leather jacket. For those who wish to understand how the company got to this point in its very valuably valued life, check this out.
As usual, no book is perfect. In this case, I have issues with two things. One isn’t about the book, but about corporate culture. The second point is about the author’s seeming misunderstanding about the importance of software.
The author provides an excellent view of the corporate culture. It is one of hiring very smart people and then working them very hard. The problem is that only half of that seems good. As someone who spent years in Silicon Valley, seeing multiple management methods, I’m all in favor of hiring the best. The misapprehension that working hard is the same as working smart is a problem that’s been seen before. Sure, I’ve worked very long days before a release, an important show, or other key parts of the company’s life. The problem with doing it all the time is that exhausted people do not always make the best decisions. While Tae Kim is good at pointing out the critical mistakes, there’s no way to know how many components of those mistakes came from smart people not being at their sharpest.
I understand the work habit fits certain people, such as Jenson. However, thinking that because it works for you means it works for everyone is the sign of an ego that doesn’t necessarily do the best for an organization. Flexibility and adaptability are especially critical in high tech. When to go the extra mile is a critical decision, and many people work far better when they have lives that extend beyond work, with ways of decompressing, of refreshing the mind, of letting the hind brain work on solutions.
What works much better than overwork seems to be the combination of Jensen Huang’s vision and his involvement in the process, the other things about his management style that are still valued and valid without the continual long hours.
While the major mistakes haven’t killed Nvidia, similar decisions have killed other companies, and I’d like to see what they do with a slightly different culture.
The other thing, the one that the Kim seems to have missed because of his background, is the importance of software. While it’s mentioned in the book, it doesn’t get the place it deserves. One of the critical factors in the company’s success is Jensen’s ability to realize how important software is to solve the business problems Nvidia has addressed, and he should get credit for that.
It starts early, with Huang realizing that he can virtually test chips. Virtually? Software! The importance of that leads to how the company began to work on multiple versions at once and get the more modern release schedule that has brought so much success.
Then there’s the even larger software issue that has brought the large capitalization that currently exists: artificial intelligence. The author describes how academics began early to use GPUs in multiple ways for biological sciences and more. Even then, some began working on AI. While the book described some ways the GPU was good for advanced number crunching, it would have better told the readers about AI.
When I first studied in the 1980s, we already had the basics of neural network theory defined. Mr. Kim mentions that. What isn’t really brought to light is the overlap with GPUs. A screen is a bunch of rows of aligned pixels. Calculations are done for each.
A neural network, the heart of deep learning, is a bunch of rows of a bunch of nodes. Each node has calculations. Academics quickly saw that they could use the GPU to imitate neural networks. The author points out that “The secret to the GPU’s success is parallel computing.” Not only that. The matrix structure led to the GPU’s adoption even as parallel computing was taking hold on CPUs.
What Jensen Huang saw early was the market potential brought by another mis-explained bit of Nvidia technology, CUDA. It’s represented in the book as primarily a hardware architecture. In my opinion, biased by my background, its primary benefit is software. CUDA is the tool for programming the GPUs that’s powerful and portable. You can code there and have it run on multiple Nvidia products. That’s critical. It also allowed the company to quickly add software routines that enhanced the ability of programmers to run AI.
Throughout the life of the company, Jensen Huang wasn’t focused solely on hardware. His ability to see the importance of software meant that the pairing worked to help the market, which helped the company.
Despite current market uncertainties, the future of Nvidia looks good. However, one minor final issue with the book is the continued focus on the GPU. Artificial intelligence has overtaken graphics for the company, the market and the world. What I see is that, in competition with the many companies working on AI specific chips, is that Nvidia will eventually drop the GPU name from AI lines. While the Blackwell still uses the GPU name, it’s not really a GPU. Nobody is going to drop it into a computer for graphics.
What Nvidia and a few other companies did for the GPU market massively changed how we look at our computers. The GPU still matters and Nvidia will continue to support that sector. However, AI is a very different sector, and the differentiated product lines are already clear. Still, that’s prognostication.
Tae Kim’s book, even given the things mentioned above, is a book that nobody interested in the history of Nvidia and it’s current and future impact upon AI should miss. It’s a nice read.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 112.65309143066406

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 108.724365234375

NVDA price the day of article release: 115.71273803710938