Using AI As A Coach In Your Career: Nvidia CEO Says It’s A Must-Have

Feb 03, 2025, 03:30pm EST

In the rapidly evolving landscape of artificial intelligence (AI), industry leaders are increasingly advocating for AI’s role as a tutor, mentor, and coach to enhance human capabilities. Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang emphasizes the transformative potential of AI in education and professional development, suggesting that AI can now teach humans, but doesn’t believe it will replace them in the workforce. The CEO of the $3.3 trillion chip company describes how AI can reduce effort, while maintaining the significance of work, in an interview with Cleo Abram. “The effort of drudgery basically goes to zero,” he says. “The knowledge of almost any particular field, the barriers to that understanding, have been reduced. I have a personal tutor with me all of the time,” he said in the interview. He recommends the same for anyone who wants to move forward in their career. Here’s why.
What’s it like to have a coach or a mentor that’s super-smart and super-fast - does that diminish your own expertise or contribution? “I can tell you exactly what that feels like,” Huang shares. “I’m surrounded by super-human people - ‘superintelligence’, from my perspective. The best in the world - they do what they do better than I can do it. And I’m surrounded by thousands of [these people]! And yet, never did it make me think I’m no longer necessary. It actually gives me the confidence to go and tackle more and more ambitious things." What if you are surrounded by superintelligence? Is it deflating, or inspiring, to walk side by side with AI? “I feel more empowered,” Huang says, “more confident to learn something today,” because of using his personal AI tutor and coach. His advice is clear: “Go get yourself an AI tutor right away.”
Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff echoes this sentiment, highlighting the emergence of AI agents in the workplace. He notes that from now on, CEOs will no longer lead all-human workforces, signaling a new era of AI coworkers. “From this point forward…we will be managing not only human workers but also digital workers,” he said during a panel at the World Econmic Forum last month. Why not enlist AI as a coach or tutor, right now? Seems there’s no reason to wait, when the future is already here.  “We’re going to be superhumans,” Huang says, “not because we are superhuman, but because we have super-human AIs.”
Elon Musk’s company, Neuralink, is pioneering brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) that aim to integrate AI-based tools directly into the human brain. Neuralink’s implantable device is designed to let users control computers or mobile devices anywhere they go, potentially enabling instantaneous access to information and seamless interaction with technology. Human trials of the implants were approved by the US FDA (Food and Drug Administration) in 2023, according to the BBC. Imagine having near-instantaneous access to the power of AI - from inside your head.
The Neuralink device, about the size of a coin, is inserted in the skull, with microscopic wires that can read neuron activity and beam back a signal. This technology could allow humans to interact with computers and other devices using only their thoughts, opening possibilities for enhanced learning, communication, and control over various technologies.
However, the integration of AI and BCIs raises questions about the future of education and critical thinking. The angel on your shoulder, offering super-fast (superhuman?) insights might bedevil educators - and have an impact on human cognitive skills. What’s the value or need for education, when I can simply ask AI to write the essay, quote a sonnet, or rewrite that Python code for me? Learning takes on a whole new meaning. What do we, as humans, need to think about…and what can we outsource to our AI tutors, coaches and (wait for it) teachers?
Maintaining a balance where AI serves as a complement to human learning can prevent the erosion of critical thinking skills and the devaluation of foundational education. “In many ways, K–12 schools are at the forefront of figuring out practical, operational ways to use AI, because they have to,” said Andrew Martin, PhD, a professor of educational psychology and chair of the educational psychology research group at the University of New South Wales in Sydney. “The more you rely on generative AI to help you with your schoolwork, the less you might be inclined to meet up with friends in person or online after school to brainstorm around an essay,” Martin said. How we integrate AI tutors and coaches into the educational system will be vital to the future of work. But for now, using resources like ChatGPT and other AIs for mentoring and coaching can be a smart move for your career. At least, that’s how Huang and others see it.
AI has the potential to significantly enhance human capabilities by offering guidance, coaching and mentorship. Rather than taking jobs or diminishing our humanity, AI can augment our abilities, providing support that leads to greater innovation and productivity. The key to working with any tool comes from the way that you use it - so why not use AI as a coach, to your best possible advantage?

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 123.65947723388672

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 120.03067016601562

NVDA price the day of article release: 116.62178802490234