5 Self-Paced, Free AI Courses To Study In 2025

Jan 12, 2025, 12:00pm EST

Demand for AI skills is skyrocketing in 2025. More industries and companies demand professionals with artificial intelligence skills, and the evidence suggests that the more AI skills you have to bolster your resume, the better for your paycheck. In fact, Indeed researchers suggest that Generative AI skills can boost your salary by as much as up to 47%. When you develop your AI skills, you can build ground-breaking AI workflows and processes for your role and industry, become more innovative and creative with your ideas, and enhance your productivity while also cutting on costs.
You become a highly valuable asset to your employer and to other potential employers—many of which would rather hire a worker with AI skills (even with limited work experience), then recruit someone with no AI skills that has years of experience, per Microsoft's Work Trend Index 2024.
Whatever your goals—be it leveraging AI to improve your business as an entrepreneur or freelancer, or simply future-proofing your career, you can learn AI skills online without the hefty price tag of an expensive course or degree.
Several organizations have partnered with educational institutions such as Coursera and shard their expertise for free (or relatively free anyway) so that you can gain certifications to add to your resume and improve your understanding of artificial intelligence.
Large tech organisations in particular, realize the importance of closing the workplace skills gap, especially as pertains to technology and AI, and they are actively engaging in initiatives and developing resources that will help close this gap.
One example of this is Nvidia, a forward-thinking company within the tech sector that provides GPUs and chips that power the development of artificial intelligence and machine learning tools. Referred to as one of the Magnificent Seven (the group of large tech companies that include Apple, Tesla, Microsoft, Google, Alphabet, and Meta), Nvidia is mostly known for its hardware and software that it provides to businesses. But what many people may be unaware of is that Nvidia also has an online Deep Learning Institute, which hosts a range of free and paid (but inexpensive) courses to help you develop your tech and AI skills.
All you need to do is to head to Nvidia's Deep Learning Institute page, click on the free courses section, and choose from its range. According to the website, some courses also come with certificates of completion, so you can proudly share these on your LinkedIn profile and refer to them on your resume.
Here are a few of the free AI courses currently available from Nvidia:
Each of these free AI courses can be completed in as little as one day, with course lengths generally ranging from two hours to eight hours. To take your learning and upskilling journey further, you can even enrol in instructor-led workshops from Nvidia (but you'll need to pay for these). Jump in and start learning right now—these courses might be the best investment you'll make in yourself this year.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 149.38104248046875

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 140.06410217285156

NVDA price the day of article release: 135.86549377441406