Finding Six-Figure Jobs In AI: Nvidia Offers Free Training Courses

Jan 08, 2025, 10:30am EST

If you’re looking for a six-figure salary, learning more about jobs in AI can help you to get there. A number of high-paying AI jobs are available, in and around large language models (LLMs) , product management, machine learning and more. With free courses are available from sources like Nvidia (NASDAQ: NVDA) and others, you can gain the skills and knowledge needed to create the future. And the future looks bright for AI: the  size of the artificial intelligence market is projected to reach nearly $245 billion in 2025, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 27.67% - resulting in a projected market size of $826.7 billion by 2030. According to Statista, the lion’s share of that growth will come from the United States. Are you ready to level up your skills, at little or no cost, so that you can capitalize on this career opportunity?
As white-collar jobs are going the way of the pager, and managers are being let go at a breakneck pace, having individual skills is vital to career success. Consider how the Wall Street Journal says that the artificial intelligence boom is lifting paychecks for CIOs - and a lot of other roles as well - because of AI. If you want to land a six-figure job in AI, being better informed on the tech is the first step. Using data pulled from Indeed, here are some six-figure jobs (with salaries) for AI-related jobs:
To bridge the skills gap and empower individuals to capitalize on these lucrative opportunities, Nvidia offers free training courses. On Nvidia’s website, you can find free courses with provocative titles, such as these:
Many other courses are offered for a fee of between $30-90 each, on Nvidia’s website. Coursera also offers an AI overview course, and more, so that you can train for a six-figure job in AI.
Another useful course is "AI Infrastructure and Operations Fundamentals," which covers:
Completing these courses can enhance your qualifications for roles such as AI Engineer, Data Scientist, or Machine Learning Engineer, all of which command six-figure salaries. At the very least, online learning presents a free opportunity to expand your familiarity with the tech around AI. The battle for six-figure opportunities is tough - especially in tech, where layoffs have made headlines for the last 18 months. Training and upskilling is the key to your career success, if you want to catch the wave of artificial intelligence. With these free or low-cost training options around AI jobs, you can position your career for a six-figure salary with minimal investment.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 144.4226837158203

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 140.09408569335938

NVDA price the day of article release: 140.06410217285156