Nvidia Stock May Rise As Its Stealth AI Cloud Rivals Big Customers

Jan 07, 2025, 09:27am EST

Updated, Jan. 7, 2025: This post has been adjusted to include numbers from Nvidia's full day of trading.
On January 6, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang’s keynote speech at the 2025 Consumer Electronics Show made a series of what looked to me like relatively small announcements — including products for industries such as robotics, cars, and gaming, according to the Wall Street Journal.
Are these mini-announcements a diversion? One analyst thinks the biggest news could be Nvidia’s strategy to compete with cloud services customers — Amazon, Microsoft, and Alphabet — by building its own AI cloud, noted Investor’s Business Daily.
Nvidia — whose shares rose almost 4% in pre-market trading and closed down 9.3%  by the end of January 7 — is excited about the opportunity to provide software for robotics developers. "The ChatGPT moment for robotics is coming,” Huang told CES attendees, according to IBD.
"Like large language models, world foundation models are fundamental to advancing robot and AV development, yet not all developers have the expertise and resources to train their own. We created Cosmos to democratize physical AI and put general robotics in reach of every developer," he added.
An Nvidia spokesperson I contacted declined to comment.
If there is one thing I learned in writing my latest book, Brain Rush, it is this: Nvidia’s future depends heavily on collaboration with companies closer to technology end-users.
That’s because Nvidia — which designs chips and builds software for developers — can only enjoy rapid growth by motivating companies closer to end-users — such as chip fabricators, cloud services providers, enterprise software companies, and management consultants — to make Nvidia’s products part of a system that businesses and consumers find valuable.
Nvidia’s CES product announcements are aimed at strengthening such partnerships. Here are the industries these announcements aim to enhance:
While Nvidia did not make an announcement about this at CES, the biggest news from the company could be a strategy to compete with its cloud services customers who account for most of Nvidia’s growth.
Indeed one analyst detected Nvidia’s growing appetite for leased data center capacity equipped for AI processing. Such AI data centers would “rent out servers powered by its own chips as well as host its AI software development platform,” noted Investor’s Business Daily.
The analyst sees Nvidia’s push into cloud computing as a New Year’s surprise. “We see the potential for Nvidia to accelerate its data center leasing in 2025 as it looks to procure more capacity that can be used for its 'AI cloud,' with the potential for Nvidia to outpace its hyperscale peers in data center leasing in 2025,” noted TD Cowen analyst Michael Elias in a report featured by IBD.
In addition to looking for more data center capacity in other deals, Elias noted an “apparent large leasing deal between Nvidia and Digital Realty for data center capacity in Northern Virginia,” IBD reported.
Nvidia’s AI Cloud would compete with so-called Neoclouds — AI processing cloud services from the likes of CoreWeave, Lambda, Crusoe, Vultr and Together AI, noted IBD — as well as Nvidia’s biggest AI chip customers Amazon and Microsoft, wrote Elias.
By building its own neocloud, Nvidia could take more profit from a fast-growing industry sector. Nvidia — which now distributes its AI software by leasing it through AWS — could boost its profits by operating its own cloud. AI neoclouds are expected to grow at a 100% compound annual rate from $4 billion last year to $32 billion by 2027, according to Pitchbook.
Meanwhile, Nvidia’s cloud customers are trying to buy more AI chips from rivals and build their own custom chips. For example, in addition to buying Blackwell chips from Nvidia, hyperscalers are buying AI processors from Broadcom and Marvell Technologies as well as designing their own custom AI accelerators and trying to sell them to OpenAI, Apple and Meta Platforms, IBD reported.
Nvidia stock may be heading up. Based on 40 Wall Street analysts offering 12-month price targets, Nvidia stock would need to rise 18.5% to reach the average forecast of $135 per share, noted TipRanks.
Here are comments from less- and more-bullish analysts:
To me the key questions for investors are: How much revenue could Nvidia's AI cloud generate? Will Nvidia’s hyperscaler clients buy less from Nvidia? My guess is Huang expects Nvidia’s AI cloud service will make the company better off.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 138.2646942138672

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 149.38104248046875

NVDA price the day of article release: 140.09408569335938