Aurora, Continental, And NVIDIA Partner To Scale Up Driverless Trucks

Jan 06, 2025, 11:00pm EST

Aurora, Continental, and NVIDIA today announced a long-term strategic partnership to deploy driverless trucks at scale, powered by the next-generation NVIDIA DRIVE Thor system-on-a-chip (SoC). NVIDIA’s DRIVE Thor and DriveOS will be integrated into the Aurora Driver, an SAE Level 4 autonomous driving system that Continental plans to mass-manufacture in 2027.
Aurora aims to deliver the benefits of self-driving technology safely, quickly, and broadly to make transportation safer, increasingly accessible, and more reliable and efficient than ever before. The Aurora Driver is a self-driving system designed to operate multiple vehicle types, from freight-hauling trucks to ride-hailing passenger vehicles, and underpins Aurora’s driver-as-a-service products for trucking and ride-hailing.
“Delivering one driverless truck will be monumental. Deploying thousands will change the way we live,” said Chris Urmson, CEO and co-founder at Aurora. “NVIDIA is the market leader in accelerated computing, and they’ll strengthen our ecosystem of partners and our ability to deliver safe and reliable driverless trucks to our customers at scale.”
“Developing, industrializing, and manufacturing powerful self-driving hardware at commercial scale requires unique and unparalleled expertise,” said Aruna Anand, President & CEO, Automotive, Continental North America. “Our industry-first collaboration with Aurora and NVIDIA to deliver driverless trucks positions Continental at the forefront of this cutting-edge technology and will drive value to our business.”
“The combination of NVIDIA’s automotive-grade DRIVE Thor platform with Aurora’s advanced self-driving trucking technology and Continental’s manufacturing and integration expertise is set to help drive the future of autonomous trucking, helping make roads safer while driving up operational efficiency,” said Rishi Dhall, vice president of automotive at NVIDIA.
Aurora is in the final stages of validating the Aurora Driver for driverless operations on public roads. The Aurora Driver is equipped with a powerful computer and sensors, including lidar, radar, and cameras, enabling it to safely operate at highway speeds. Verifiable AI enables the Aurora Driver to quickly adapt to new operating domains while being validated through Aurora's Safety Case, an essential tool for regulatory trust and public acceptance. Aurora plans to launch its driverless trucking service in Texas in April 2025.
NVIDIA will power the primary computer of the Aurora Driver with a dual NVIDIA DRIVE Thor SoC configuration that runs DriveOS. DRIVE Thor, built on the NVIDIA Blackwell architecture, is designed to accelerate inference tasks critical for autonomous vehicles to understand and navigate the world around them. As Continental and Aurora prepare to manufacture self-driving hardware at scale in 2027, there’s plenty of action now: production samples of DRIVE Thor are coming in the first half of 2025.
Continental is one of the major automotive suppliers globally. The company employs around 200,000 people in 56 countries and markets, generating 2023 sales of €41.4 billion. Continental is developing a reliable, serviceable, cost-efficient generation of the Aurora Driver hardware, specifically for high-volume manufacturing. The company is also developing a specialized independent secondary system that can take over operation if a failure occurs in the primary Aurora Driver computer. With start of production planned for 2027, Continental will test prototypes of the future hardware kit in the coming months. Continental will then integrate DRIVE Thor with DriveOS into the primary Aurora Driver computer at its manufacturing facilities and ship the full hardware kit to Aurora’s truck OEM partners for integration into customers’ trucks.
At the 2025 Consumer Electronics Show this week in Las Vegas, the Continental exhibition is displaying an early prototype of the Aurora Driver hardware by Continental and the Volvo VNL Autonomous: the flagship model of Volvo's autonomous technology platform that is designed to seamlessly integrate with the Aurora Driver.
Based on CES program information, other Automated Driving System developers exhibiting at CES 2025 are Plus, Volvo Group, Waymo, WeRide, and Zoox. These companies are beyond the heady days of yesteryear when the question was “is it possible to deploy autonomous driving safely on public roads?” While many companies have fallen by the wayside in the ensuring years, those who remain, by and large, are transitioning capable driverless technology to scale-able products.
In fact, 2025 looks to be the break-out year for autonomous driving, tantalizingly moving towards full commercial deployment for autonomous trucking. Not just Aurora: Gatik has signaled similar scale-able “freight only” deployments in early 2025.
Meanwhile, ride-hailing with driverless vehicles continues to gain momentum. It’s significant that Aurora is signaling a future which includes rail-hailing as well as trucking. If so, they will be unique in the U.S. by covering both use cases.
Disclosure: Richard Bishop advises and/or holds equity in the following companies mentioned in this article: Alphabet, Aurora, Gatik, Plus, WeRide.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 134.2460174560547

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 144.4226837158203

NVDA price the day of article release: 149.38104248046875