Conservative Microsoft Eyes Bitcoin As MicroStrategy And Nvidia Lead

Dec 04, 2024, 08:00am EST

Students of history know that even the most iconoclastic revolutionary sooner or later becomes a conservative. It’s no different in the tech sector. Those AI founders who are currently tearing up the rulebook? The decentralization pioneers building the next iteration of the web? One day they too will be legacy firms, grappling with upstart innovators in the battle to remain relevant.
So when Silicon Valley aristocracy like Microsoft changes tack and embraces an emerging technology like bitcoin, everyone needs to sit up and take notice. Next month, the software giant that did so much to create the modern world will vote on ‘an assessment in investing in bitcoin’ — admittedly, in the teeth of opposition from many on its board.
It’s not Microsoft’s sheer size that makes this so significant, although its staggering $3 trillion valuation can’t be ignored. It’s that the philosophy of bitcoin and blockchain runs directly counter to the principles of centralization on which today’s Big Tech monopolies were built. Were Microsoft to buy into bitcoin, it would be a not-so-tacit admission that the future is decentralized, and that even the world’s biggest companies have little choice but to turn their most dearly-held assumptions on their head.
Let’s not get ahead of ourselves: there’s perhaps an equal chance Microsoft shareholders will vote not to put bitcoin on its balance sheet…at least, not just yet. The very fact they’re considering it at all, however, has ramifications for the whole crypto industry, financial markets, governments, regulators — in fact, for all of us.
The early years of bitcoin were defined by intense skepticism from financial, political, and corporate elites. This didn’t stop risk-taking enterprises like MicroStrategy from going hard and going early. Michael Saylor was roundly derided for his bet on bitcoin, but the joke is now on his critics: the strategy has been insanely lucrative, with MicroStrategy reported to have made a profit of $11 billion on its investment at the last count.
“Oil tanker” enterprises with a low risk appetite like Microsoft were never going to pivot so quickly. The question is, why now? Doesn’t Microsoft’s slowness, its caution, its which-way-the-wind-blows posture mean it’s late to the bitcoin party?
Quite the opposite. Microsoft is a conservative organisation, and its consideration of bitcoin is founded on a (perhaps, grudging) acceptance of important geopolitical, macroeconomic, and adoption trends. Thanks in part to visionaries like MicroStrategy along with major financial institutions like BlackRock, not to mention growing political and regulatory approval for crypto and its derivatives, bitcoin’s risk profile has changed.
While Nvidia has not directly invested in Bitcoin, the company has significantly benefited from the cryptocurrency sector, particularly through the demand for its graphics processing units (GPUs) used in Bitcoin mining. This demand has contributed to Nvidia's substantial revenue growth. Notably, Nvidia faced a shareholder lawsuit alleging that it misrepresented the extent of its revenue derived from cryptocurrency mining. The U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear Nvidia's appeal in this case, highlighting the company's indirect involvement in the cryptocurrency industry.
Meanwhile, blockchain continues to innovate, with Layer 2 solutions adding new functionalities on a seemingly daily basis, and powering increasing convergence between the fiat and crypto ecosystems. These are just some of the key factors driving bitcoin’s transformation from a speculative asset into the basis for a conservative investment strategy. Microsoft might be classed as a “follower” compared to MicroStrategy, but it could well be a bellwether for other conservative corporations.
There are many tech entrepreneurs who can relate to President-elect Trump. They see him (much as they see themselves) as the Great Disruptor: someone unafraid to shake things up, to shoot first and ask questions later; to coin a phrase, someone who moves fast and breaks things.
On bitcoin, however, Trump is more of a weathervane than a signpost. His position has shifted with the wind — it wasn’t so long ago that he was calling it “a scam against the dollar”. His wholehearted embrace of bitcoin may have moved the markets towards the long-promised milestone of $100,000 mere days after his election, but the most significant developments were already in train before he’d even announced his candidacy. These were carried out not on the financial markets but in the corridors of power.
You don’t have to be a bitcoin obsessive to know that Congress (along with other legislatures worldwide) has been working hard on developing new laws governing crypto and digital assets. This isn’t the place to cover them all, but they include legislation like FIT 21 in the US and, of course, the European Union’s Markets in Crypto Assets (MiCA), widely recognised as the world’s most ambitious and comprehensive set of regulations for crypto.
The intricacies and specifics of these new regulations are less important than the wider trend they illustrate. Governments, which fought for so long against the horrifying concept of money and financial networks they couldn’t control, have finally accepted bitcoin and blockchain as a fact of life. They are now drawing up a roadmap to institutional adoption. The momentum is all in the direction of regulation that brings crypto within established financial structures; this regulatory clarity in turn breeds the kind of confidence that makes even the likes of Microsoft consider moving bitcoin onto their balance sheet.
The entry of conservative corporations into bitcoin has profound consequences for the currency’s trajectory. Naturally, when skeptics of this size change their mind and add bitcoin to their treasury, it is a huge vote of confidence that increases the legitimacy, not only of the currency, but of the whole ecosystem that surrounds it.
Of course, Microsoft is defined by more than its age and outlook. There’s its balance sheet and previously-mentioned valuation — whales don’t come much bigger. If Microsoft enters bitcoin in a big way, it would cause tsunami-size ripples throughout the market. Moreover, remember that the company’s operating systems run most of the computers on every desk and in every home (and a decent proportion of mobile devices, too). It’s inconceivable that Microsoft would be content simply to hold bitcoin without finding ways to add value to both its business and its balance sheet by developing new crypto- and blockchain-powered utilities, and integrating them into its software empire.
These are wild times for crypto, but the adoption by ‘conservative’ enterprises could also herald a new period of stabilization by reducing the influence of retail speculation on the price. A more stable bitcoin would, in turn, attract even more interest from corporations that were once reluctant to invest.
Whichever way Microsoft shareholders vote, they should remember that success in business today requires the agility and drive to constantly rethink, reinvigorate, react, and reinvent. Wise words, but sadly not my own. Just some tech bro from the distant past — Bill Gates, I think was his name.
Did you enjoy this story? Don’t miss my next one: Use the blue follow button at the top of the article near my byline to follow more of my work.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 138.19520568847656

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 140.20440673828125

NVDA price the day of article release: 145.0824737548828