Nvidia Leads The HPC Landscape At SuperComputing ’24

Nov 18, 2024, 01:30pm EST

Nvidia has gone from a niche provider of HPC technology to becoming a dominant force in the industry. This year’s SC event reinforces that leadership.
The annual SuperComputing event in North America is taking place this week in Atlanta, Georgia, and as usual the show is full of 1000’s of scientists discovering the future, and those selling them technologies to accelerate High Performance Computing, or HPC. And Artificial Intelligence  is the new tool that helps scientists in new ways as AI models continue to evolve. With AI and accelerated computing, scientists can speed simulations by 10-100X, or even enable scientists to predict what a classical simulation would produce without even running them,
In the last five years, the high performance community has embraced accelerated computing (primarily GPUs) in a steady march towards dominance. GPUs were a rarity in 2019 in the Top100, while today accelerators rule the roost representing over 65% of the prestigious list. Consequently, the CPU-centric supercomputer is becoming a rare beast. Nvidia and AMD GPUs have become essential to HPC.
HPC scientist need the performance that GPUs can deliver, but they don’t want to become AI scientists. They are weather scientists, geneticists, chemists, and physicists. Nvidia is increasingly promoting “NIM Microservices” to enable these scientists to tap into the power of AI, And Nvidia continually adds new domains to its NIM catalog for faster inference processing and lower TCO. Scientist increasingly do not have to worry about the optimizations normally demanded by AI to get the best performance out of their hardware; NIM Microservices allow Nvidia engineers to do all that work for them.
All companies producing Quantum Computing Units (QPUs) now believe that Quantum needs classic computing to help it become usable and, perhaps someday, ubiquitous. Nvidia’s Quantum play is CUDA-Q, which is essentially like CUDA for developing and simulating quantum circuits that run on somebody’s QPU. Nvidia has added “Dynamics” to CUDA-Q, which enable developers to accelerate the creation and simulation of quantum circuits from taking a year on CPUs to running in under an hour on Nvidia GPUs.
And its not just Nvidia who is saying that. Google, a developer of quantum hardware, has adopted CUDA-Q in its Quantum AI program to perform the world’s largest device simulations.
As we wrote in another blog today,  Nvidia realizes that not everyone needs or can handle the infrastructure needed for its most advanced system, the GB200 NVL72. Many can adequately handle their HPC and AI needs with traditionally connected and configured servers; they just need a faster accelerator. Nvidia announced that its H200 NVL4 PCIe card package is now generally available. The 4-card package increases performance by 30-70% using the NVLink-connected Hopper GPUs in virtually any server.
And for those needing the performance of Blackwell, which is 1.8 to 2.2 times faster for simulation and AI, Nvidia has announced a new GB200 NVL4,
We can’t cover it all but Nvidia made a slew of other announcements, the depth and breadth of which reinforce our view that Nvidia has regained its leadership in HPC, if it ever lost it. These announcements include:
Nvidia strongly believes and has demonstrated that AI and HPC are “Full Stack” problems, demanding that technology providers think through the entire system of systems, with the networking and software needed to provide performant solutions. And one of the most important of these in HPC and AI is networking these fast CPUs and GPUs together into a comprehensive system of systems.
While Ethernet and InfiniBand do a great job of solving many node-to node and rack to rack networking problems, the GPU to GPU demands far faster links. NVLink with NVSwitch deliver significantly higher bandwidth compared to standard Ethernet, with the latest generations reaching several terabytes per second, while even high-end Ethernet currently maxes out at around 800 gigabits per second. NVLink also provides lower latency than Ethernet, which is crucial for applications requiring fast data exchange between GPUs.
Nvidia’s leadership in HPC appeared to take a hit a few years ago when the DOE’s fastest systems were built on AMD GPU and CPU technologies. They had the 64-bit floating point and prices that the DOE required, and these systems have endured as some of the fastest in the world.  But as AI has become more mainstream in supercomputing centers, Nvidia’s full-stack approach with the fastest AI GPUs have become relatively more attractive.
In this article, we have barely scratched the surface of what Nvidia is showing off in Atlanta, but thanks for reading!
This article expresses the author's opinions and should not be taken as advice to purchase from or invest in the companies mentioned. Cambrian-AI Research is fortunate to serve clients who are leaders in technology, especially in semiconductor and IT infrastructure. Mr. Freund’s personal portfolio has at various times held positions in companies mentioned in this article. For more information, please visit our website at https://cambrian-AI.com.


NVDA price 3 days before article release: 146.21202087402344

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 141.9237060546875

NVDA price the day of article release: 140.09442138671875