How Fabric Cryptography Plans To Become The Nvidia Of Privacy Tech

Aug 19, 2024, 02:36pm EDT

Michael Gao, the co-founder of California-based start-up Fabric Cryptography, makes a bold claim. “We’re going to do for cryptography what Nvidia has done for artificial intelligence (AI),” he says. Given the stellar performance of Nvidia, largely related to its market leadership in AI chip technology, that’s some promise. But investors are ready to back the ambition of Gao and his colleagues – the company is today announcing a $33 million fund raising.
Founded only last year, Fabric has developed a new piece of hardware aimed specifically at the cryptography sector, where concerns over data privacy and security have seen a surge in investment in new types of technology. “We’re the first company in the world to create a chip that is focused directly at the needs of cryptographers,” says Tina Ju, Gao’s co-founder. “The latest cryptography tools represent a whole new generation of technology and they require a whole new architecture to support them.”
The architecture in question is Fabric’s “verifiable processing unit (VPU)”. It’s a chip designed specifically with an instruction set that is bespoke to cryptography, enabling users to break down the algorithms used in the discipline into their mathematical building blocks, which are accelerated and supported by the chip.
Fabric points to developments in cryptography such as zero-knowledge proofs as necessitating special attention from hardware designers and manufacturers. ZKPs effectively enable one party to use its data to establish that something is true without actually providing access to the data. Such concepts promise to revolutionise data privacy, but could also have widespread applications in multiple disciplines as organisations and individuals work to establish trust with one another. Gao points out, for example, that this type of cryptography could be used by generative AI developers to prove that the data in their models is not biased or inaccurate, without the data and the model actually having to be shared.
Despite the potential of advanced cryptography to deliver on such ambitions, the hardware sector has not invested in its needs, Fabric argues.
“There exists a whole world of advanced cryptographic algorithms that go beyond protecting our data, and can actually begin to guarantee trust, if we can run them efficiently,” Gao says. “Billions of dollars have been poured into better AI chips of all kinds, but researchers and industry projects in cryptography have had to settle with CPUs or GPUs, which were never made for the kind of intensive mathematics that advanced cryptography uses.”
Fabric’s technology, aimed at closing this gap in the market, is ready to go into mass production early next year and the company says it already has substantial pre-orders for its VPU. Today’s Series A investment will give the business the headroom it requires to reach mass production – and provide funding for further research and  development.
The funding round is co-led by Blockchain Capital and 1kx, with participation from specialists in the sector, such as Offchain Labs, Polygon, and Matter Labs. It follows an earlier $6 million seed round led by Metaplanet with participation from investors including Inflection and Liquid2 Ventures. Today’s announcement takes the total amount of funds raised by the company since its launch last year to $39 million.
"What sets the VPU apart is its unique combination of programmability, flexibility and performance,” argues Dr Wei Dai, cryptographer and research partner at 1kx. “The VPU can be programmed to run virtually any cryptographic workload efficiently using its innovative instruction set. Unlike other fixed-function chips, which are common in cryptography, the VPU is future-proof – it can adapt to new cryptography algorithms as they are developed and productionised.”
Yuan Han Li, an investor at Blockchain Capital, also believes the technology could prove transformative. He describes it as “the world’s first VPU to help bring about a world where privacy and verifiability are non-negotiable components of all digital systems.”

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 118.02310180664062

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 124.51995849609376

NVDA price the day of article release: 129.93736267089844