How This First-Time Founder Got SoftBank, Nvidia And Microsoft To Write Him A Billion-Dollar Check

Jul 11, 2024, 07:00am EDT

In the summer of 2018, 25-year-old Alex Kendall followed Jensen Huang into an elevator after the Nvidia CEO had finished his talk at an AI conference in Salt Lake City. With only 20 seconds alone with Huang, Kendall pitched him Wayve: then a year-old startup in London building AI to let cars drive themselves, claiming it could do it safer and cheaper than anyone else on the road by giving the car “its own brain.”
The literal elevator pitch planted the seeds for what, six years later, would become a $1.05 billion Series C funding round. Closed in May, the raise attracted investment not only from Nvidia, but tech titans SoftBank and Microsoft, a company whose AI bets have propelled it to become one of the world's most valuable enterprises with a $3 trillion market cap.
Neither Kendall nor his investors would disclose Wayve’s current valuation. The deal, however, was the largest cash raise for a tech startup in the U.K. And Kendall pulled it off with no revenue, no customers and no commercially available product.
Investor’s aren’t worried. “Every one or two months I've been in the vehicle, the AI has become cleverer every time,” says SoftBank investor Kentaro Matsui. “We’re quite confident there’ll be multiple automakers who will very much be willing to partner with them.”
Matsui also likes how Wayve is a pure software play, and how Kendall, now 31, has secured industry vets—like Mobileye’s Erez Dagan and Waymo’s Dan McCloskey—for its leadership team. He was first pitched by the founder three years ago, but says late last year is when car manufacturers began taking serious notice of the startup.
Wayve has attracted some of tech’s biggest names with the promise of making any car a self-driving car using cameras and code alone. Based on computer vision and the machine learning power of AI, Wayve’s software processes live images to train itself to drive via visual observation, like a 15-year-old watching from the passenger seat.
“Robots can be told how to behave in a set environment, but they need to have the intelligence and common sense reasoning to be able to do this in a way that we trust,” says Kendall, Forbes Under 30 alum. “Everyone is focusing on building more sensors and infrastructure and hardware to make this possible, but for me, it’s an intelligence gap.”
Although it’s the same hardware-agnostic approach used in Tesla vehicles—a theory criticized for its lack of safety measures—Kendall sees an open lane by selling his technology to third-party car makers. His pitch: Wayve’s software can add self-driving powers to your vehicles, and on the cheap.
Other startups have promised to perform a similar feat, and failed. Drive.ai, backed by renowned AI scientist Andrew Ng, made headlines for this capital-intensive undertaking back in 2016. After raising $77 million, it was bought out by Apple in 2019 on the brink of bankruptcy.
Like any good car salesman, Kendall bet big on test drives. Armed with driving data collected from partnerships with U.K delivery companies DPD, Asda and the Ocado Group, he trained Wayve to navigate London’s notoriously tricky roads. By last spring, Kendall was taking SoftBank’s Matsui, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella–and even Bill Gates–for an autonomous spin through the city’s bustling streets. The demo, where the software navigated swerving bikes, buses and pedestrian traffic, helped seal the $1 billion deal.
Growing up in the South Island of New Zealand, Kendall had a knack for building things since childhood. In 2014, he landed a scholarship at Cambridge University to pursue a PhD in robotics and computer vision, where he came up with Wayve. He banded together with cofounder Amar Shah (who’s no longer with the company), raised $2 million and hired ten other students to bring the idea to life.
A software prototype in hand, he set his sights on finding investors. Kendall attended as many tech conferences as he could, often flying to the U.S. His technique was straight forward–have a demo ready on his phone and show as many people as possible. “Entrepreneurship is about relationships,” he says. “You always have to be pitching.”
His many bylines on published research coming out of his PhD were another asset. In 2019, Meta’s chief AI scientist Yann LeCun read Kendall’s academic work and invested in Wayve’s $20 million Series A. VC firm Balderton Capital, who co-led the Series A, says it found Kendall through one of his papers that went viral in the Cambridge area. Soon, Dr. Jamie Shotton, who led Microsoft’s Mixed Reality and AI Lab out of Cambridge, joined Wayve as its chief scientist. By 2022, Microsoft put cash into Wayve’s $200 million Series B.
Now, Kendall must take Wayve from academic papers to real-world products. It’s a treacherous road.“This space is difficult. It's very hard to commercialize. The Vision Fund has invested into multiple AV companies in the past, and not many are successful,” Matsui told Forbes. “Wayve is very different from what we’ve invested in, and that comes from experience that this is a better way.”
It’s still up for debate whether Wayve’s camera-first technology is the key to unlocking everyday self-driving. Edward Niedermeyer, an industry analyst who’s authored several books on Tesla, says Elon Musk’s camera-based tech has hit pot holes. It took Tesla eight years to roll out a version similar to Wayve, autonomous driving with hands by the wheel, and that’s been linked to multiple fatalities. Wayve’s saving grace, Niedermeyer says, might just be its business model.
Other companies focusing on hardware are far ahead. Alphabet’s Waymo has partners like Mercedes-Benz and cars that don’t need drivers at all. Forbes estimates Waymo will generate some $50 million in revenue this year, even though it only operates in four cities so far.
“Judge us by what we do over the next five years,” Kendall says. “We can deliver this and deliver it robustly.”

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 128.13819885253906

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 134.84500122070312

NVDA price the day of article release: 127.33861541748048