NVIDIA Takes The Throne: Is This A Tech Bubble?

Jun 23, 2024, 07:00am EDT

For a moment last week, NVIDIASPDR Dow Jones Industrial Average ETF Trust (NVDA) surpassed Microsoft (MSFT) as the largest company in the world and S&P 500 index. While it slipped from that perch to end the week, it seemed an appropriate time to revisit whether the large technology stocks, notably NVIDIA, are in the throes of an unsustainable bubble.
The Magnificent 7, consisting of Microsoft (MSFT), Meta Platforms (META), Amazon.com (AMZN), Apple (AAPL), NVIDIA (NVDA), Alphabet (GOOGL), and Tesla (TSLA), have grown to be over 32% of the market capitalization of the S&P 500. Of the Magnificent 7, only Tesla falls outside the ten largest companies in the S&P 500. Seven of the ten largest companies in the S&P 500 are technology companies, including Broadcom (AVGO).
NVIDIA is particularly noticeable given the massive increase in its market capitalization, which now exceeds $3.1 trillion, on the back of the artificial intelligence spending wave. Given this move and its recent short-lived elevation to king of the S&P 500, this analysis will pay extra attention to NVIDIA.
For this analysis, a “bubble” will be defined as a stock price that cannot be justified by the fundamental earnings power of a company. Based on the past twelve months of earnings and consensus earnings estimates for the next year, the price-to-earnings ratios for all the Magnificent 7 stocks are above the S&P 500. While this ratio indicates that these companies have a higher valuation, it doesn’t answer whether other factors justify that premium.
Another way to value companies is by their multiple revenues, which is called the price-to-sales ratio. All the Magnificent 7 are valued at price-to-sales ratios above the S&P 500, with NVIDIA sporting an eye-popping over forty times price-to-sales ratio.
Historical annualized growth in sales over the last three and five years has been impressive for most of the group.
Likewise, historical earnings per share growth has generally been impressive and exceptional in cases like NVIDIA.
The five-year annualized earnings per share growth rate of the Magnificent 7 shows just how unique these companies have been versus the stock market as a whole.
Future earnings are the most important criterion when considering buying or holding a stock. Consensus forecasts from Wall Street analysts show significant optimism for NVIDIA’s earnings growth prospects. Separately, the so-called sustainable growth rate for the group supports the future growth story. The sustainable growth rate theoretically tells how fast the company can grow without borrowing additional funds and using the same capital structure.
Again, the profitability metrics of most of the Magnificent 7 are impressive. Gross margins look at profitability after all direct expenses, defined as the cost of goods sold, have been removed from sales. Operating margins measure how much a company earns on a dollar of sales after paying for the variable expenses or the percentage of sales converted into operating income. NVIDIA converts almost sixty cents of every dollar into operating profit and is at the top of the heap among the Magnificent 7.
Warren Buffett has espoused that a simple high price-to-earnings ratio can be deceiving when analyzing a company with high returns on invested capital (ROIC). He said, “We like stocks that generate high returns on invested capital where there is a strong likelihood that it will continue to do so. For example, the last time we bought Coca-Cola, it was selling at about 23 times earnings. Using our purchase price and today’s earnings, that makes it about 5 times earnings. It’s really the interaction of capital employed, the return on capital, and the future capital generated versus the purchase price today.” To put the return on invested capital figures for the Magnificent 7 into proper perspective, the ROIC for the S&P 500 is around 8%.
Further, most of the companies in the Magnificent 7 produce significant amounts of free cash flow despite investing in growing businesses. The free cash flow margin shows the percentage of revenue converted into free cash flow that the company can use or distribute to shareholders. NVIDIA is exceptional, with almost half of every dollar of sales converted to free cash flow.
Charlie Munger also focused on cash flow rather than other valuation metrics when he said, “We try to stick with companies that are gushing cash flow. We don’t really think of value as low price to book or low price to earnings. We are actually valuing businesses based on cash flows like a private equity investor would. We are valuing businesses based on cash flows.”
Free cash flow yield refers to the free cash flow per share generated from a business as a percentage of its stock price. A free cash flow yield below the S&P 500, like the Magnificent 7 and NVIDIA, can be seen as investors already pricing in superior growth and durability of free cash flow relative to the market.
Investors already appreciate the strong fundamentals of the Magnificent 7, with stock returns far outstripping the S&P 500 in 2023 and 2024 year-to-date.
Despite the massive outperformance of tech stocks, the evidence is almost incontrovertible that the current situation is not a bubble. Large technology stocks generally have exceptional profitability relative to the average stock and should trade at a premium valuation. The rise in the stock prices of the Magnificent 7 has been supported by robust fundamentals and not just a promise of future profitability.
The bullish case on large tech and NVIDIA is bolstered by the rise of artificial intelligence (AI). It seems likely that AI will be a transformational tool for businesses that will generate substantial economic profits. The complex computations needed to support AI are typically done by cloud service providers (CSPs). JPMorgan estimates that tech spending by the top four U.S. CSPs will be around $150 billion in 2024, which is 39% higher than in 2023. NVIDIA should reap significant revenue from this spending as the leading chip provider for AI.
Conversely, the risk of owning these tech darlings has risen, including in NVIDIA. The bullish case is well known, and there is always the possibility that capital spending on AI outstrips the end demand for the services, causing a retrenchment or the technology fails to live up to its promise. Further, the eye-popping profitability of companies like NVIDIA is challenging to maintain long-term as capitalism subjects firms to brutal competition in vying for profits. Investors buy or hold companies for their future profits, not the past. The past is only significant so much as it informs the future prospects of the business. Businesses like many of the Magnificent 7 have shown superior profitability over time, which provides evidence of a competitive advantage that should allow them to reap excess profits. Still, that probability needs to be balanced with the price paid.
The mega-cap technology stocks, represented by the Magnificent 7, continue to produce earnings and free cash flow at impressive rates. These are generally remarkable businesses with outstanding returns on capital, but some selective pruning is likely prudent risk management even with no sign of trouble evident currently. Selective buying within underperforming and less economically sensitive sectors like healthcare and consumer staples can provide an attractive counterweight to the concentration of performance and risk in the technology sector.
Disclosure: Glenview Trust currently has holdings of Microsoft (MSFT), Meta Platforms (META), Amazon.com (AMZN), Apple (AAPL), NVIDIA (NVDA), Broadcom (AVGO), Coca-Cola (KO), and Alphabet (GOOGL) within its recommended investment strategies.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 130.9168701171875

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 130.71697998046875

NVDA price the day of article release: 126.50900268554688