Forbes Daily: Nvidia’s CEO Over $8 Billion Richer After Stock Rally

May 24, 2024, 08:16am EDT

andForbes Daily,
Forbes Staff.
Good morning,
Americans are souring on the value of higher education amid skyrocketing costs and a student debt crisis.
A new study from the Pew Research Center revealed just 22% of Americans think college is worth the cost if a student has to take on debt. Total student debt in the U.S. exceeds $1.6 trillion, and some universities charge more than $80,000 a year for tuition, fees, room and board.
You’re still likely to earn more with a bachelor’s degree than a high school degree, but inflation-adjusted earnings for young adults without college degrees have risen over the past decade. And a growing number of companies are embracing “skills-based” hiring, removing degree requirements from job listings.
Let’s get into the headlines,
Even as Nvidia staged the second biggest daily gain of any company in history, markets declined Thursday, with the Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 1.5%, its largest point loss in 15 months. Losses for the S&P 500 and Nasdaq Composite were narrower, as the benchmark S&P slid 0.7% and the tech-heavy Nasdaq dipped 0.4%, thanks in large part to the fact that those indexes include Nvidia, while the Dow doesn’t.
Helsing, the secretive AI company that has secured contracts with European militaries, is in talks to raise funding that would value it in the range of $4 billion, sources told Forbes, a deal that would make it one of the world’s most valuable defense tech startups. The funding round is another major bet on the fast-growing defense tech ecosystem, and marks the largest investment in a European defense tech company.
The House passed legislation Wednesday evening that would put most forms of cryptocurrency, including bitcoin, under the regulatory purview of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission by classifying them as commodities, rather than securities that would fall under the authority of the SEC, which has executed a crackdown on the industry under President Joe Biden. Lawmakers who supported the bill touted it as a way to clarify regulatory authority for digital assets, but SEC Chair Gary Gensler opposed it, arguing it would allow crypto issuers to “self-certify” that they are issuing crypto as a commodity rather than a security.
As shares of Nvidia surged to a fresh all-time high following its blowout earnings, the semiconductor chip company’s CEO and cofounder Jensen Huang’s fortune grew by over $8 billion Thursday to $92 billion, according to Forbes’ calculations, making him the 17th-richest person in the world. It’s a remarkable rise in riches for Huang, who was worth just $4.7 billion as of Forbes’ 2020 billionaires list and $13.5 billion at the beginning of last year, attributable to Nvidia stock’s meteoric rise as investors grew infatuated with the Silicon Valley firm’s exponential earnings growth.
Valued at $26 billion, Australia-founded design startup Canva unveiled business-friendly software updates to its 185 million monthly users Thursday, reflecting the desire from its largest customers to consolidate the number of tools they use. While Canva still connects with every major work software tool you’d expect, companies are becoming sensitive to the amount of data and intellectual property they’re hosting across disparate tools, cofounder and CEO Melanie Perkins said.
Senate Democrats are probing whether former President Donald Trump and oil executives are scheming to trade campaign donations for industry-friendly policies if Trump wins a second term, the New York Times reported. The news comes after Trump reportedly suggested in April to about two dozen oil industry executives that they should give $1 billion to his campaign, while simultaneously proposing rollbacks to drilling regulations.
The Louisiana Senate passed first-in-the-country legislation Thursday that will classify abortion pills as dangerous controlled substances, meaning people in possession of the pills without a prescription could face jail time and fines. The medication, mifepristone and misoprostol, are commonly used as abortion pills but are also used for miscarriages and to prevent ulcers. Republican Gov. Jeff Landry is expected to sign the bill into law.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk on Thursday said he opposes the U.S. government's move to levy 100% tariffs on Chinese electric vehicles—announced by the Biden administration last week in an effort to fight against “China’s unfair trade practices,” the White House said. Musk’s comments are a change of tone, after he warned earlier this year about the threat Chinese EV companies posed to global car makers without trade barriers.
The Justice Department filed an antitrust lawsuit against Ticketmaster and parent company Live Nation, which merged in 2010, the latest in the Biden administration’s sweeping antitrust crackdown across various markets. ​​Attorney General Merrick Garland said in a statement that Live Nation and Ticketmaster’s alleged anti-competitive behavior has resulted in fans paying more in fees for tickets and fewer opportunities for artists, smaller promoters and venues.
Dozens of people are feared dead after a major landslide struck a remote village in Papua New Guinea early on Friday—with residents telling some media outlets the toll could be more than 100 people—as authorities in the Pacific island nation scrambled to mount a rescue effort. The landslide struck the village of Kaokalam in the Enga province, located around 370 miles northwest of the country’s capital Port Moresby, at around 3 a.m. local time, Australian state broadcaster ABC reported.
Software from startup Atropos Health can tap into 200 million patient records to help doctors make decisions based on what’s happening in the real-world outside of carefully designed clinical trials. The company, backed by billionaire venture capital investor Jim Breyer, an early investor in Facebook, announced a $33 million fundraising round Thursday, and Forbes estimates its valuation to be around $250 million.
The busy summer travel season is here, and for the first time, virtually all commercial airline passengers who encounter flight cancellations and significant delays will have the flexibility to change their plans without incurring a fee. This month, Frontier and Spirit eliminated nearly all change and cancellation fees, bringing the ultra-low-cost carriers in line with the larger airlines.
The IRS will extend the Free File program through October 2029, following an agreement to continue making free private-sector tax software available to taxpayers. IRS Free File is offered as part of a public-private partnership between the IRS and Free File Inc., through which tax preparation and filing software providers make their online products available to eligible taxpayers.
TOPLINE Amid private credit’s gold rush, New York City’s Blue Owl is providing the “picks and shovels” for deal-hungry private equity firms.
Blue Owl’s core private credit business has closed no fewer than 600 loans amounting to $100 billion in gross originations since Owl Rock’s founding in 2016. Some $15 billion of those loans are held by Blue Owl Capital Corp., one of the company’s NYSE-listed business development companies, which has logged an internal rate of return of 9.8% since its inception in 2016.
Blue Owl Inc. is a relatively new name in the world of private capital, but it is run by veterans of the business. It was formed in May 2021, after a $12.5 billion SPAC merger between Owl Rock Capital and Michael Rees’ Dyal Capital Partners, known for buying minority stakes in other private equity firms.
Since then the firm has roughly quadrupled in size. It managed $174 billion in assets at the end of the first quarter this year, with $91 billion in its credit business. Following acquisitions of Kuvare Asset Management and real estate lender Prima Capital in April, Blue Owl has effectively ballooned to more than $200 billion. Its stock is up 86% in the last year, becoming a rare success story among companies borne from SPACs. Co-CEOs Doug Ostrover, 61, and Marc Lipschultz, 55, as well as Rees, a co-president still overseeing its $56 billion general partnership stakes segment, are all billionaires.
Blue Owl specializes in financing software buyouts and private equity-backed businesses in other growing industries with recurring cash flows, and Ostrover boasts that his firm has never lost money on an enterprise software deal. Its track record of avoiding defaults is superb, with firm-wide annualized losses of just 0.06% in its credit portfolio.
WHY IT MATTERS “Private equity is everywhere in the United States, with PE-backed businesses employing around 12 million people, and the PE firms owning these businesses depend on other peers for financing to complete their leveraged buyouts,” says Forbes staff writer Hank Tucker. “More and more often, those loans are coming from under the radar firms like Blue Owl rather than major banks. Blue Owl’s returns are limited to the interest rates it charges on its loans, but high rates are making the firm attractive to investors without taking on the risk of owning the equity in a company if it flounders. Blue Owl also has a business that buys stakes in private equity firms directly, making it a one-stop-shop serving Wall Street’s elite.”
MORE Why The Wolves Of Wall Street Are Turning Back To IPOs
The WNBA will add its first non-U.S. team in Toronto, as the league continues to see an increase in demand and interest, in large part due to rising stars like Caitlin Clark and Angel Reese. The new team will be owned by Kilmer Sports Ventures, which is owned by Larry Tanenbaum, chairman of both the NBA Board of Governors and of the company that owns the NBA’s Toronto Raptors:
$115 million: The amount Tanenbaum is reportedly paying for the team
16: The number of teams the league hopes to have by 2028
More than 90%: The increase in ticket sales for the WNBA ahead of this season compared to the previous year
Quitting your job to pursue a passion or further your education can be rewarding, but it requires advanced planning to manage the temporary drop in income. Reflect on your financial goals and rank them in order of importance, stick to a budget, and while you still have a higher income, try to build up about six months of average spending in savings as a cushion. But a reduced income can also present opportunities: For instance, if you’ve been thinking about converting pre-tax retirement accounts to Roth investments, you’ll pay fewer taxes on the conversion if your income is lower.
Hundreds of people walked out of the commencement ceremony at an Ivy League college Thursday, after some students were denied degrees due to their involvement in a weeks-long campus encampment protesting Israel’s war in Gaza. Which college is it?
A. Columbia University
B. Yale University
C. Cornell University
D. Harvard University
Check your answer.
Get the Crypto Confidential newsletter for a weekly rundown on all things crypto. Sign up here to get tomorrow’s edition.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 95.33220672607422

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 103.7404556274414

NVDA price the day of article release: 106.40895080566406