Nvidia Stock Up 1,124%. Other Winners And Whether To Buy $NVDA

Sep 24, 2025, 01:31pm EDT

Nvidia's $100B investment in OpenAI, linked to $350B in chip sales, raises circular financing concerns, drawing parallels to Cisco's risky dot-com era vendor lending.OpenAI's $1 trillion data center ambition heavily relies on Nvidia's investment, securing vital chip supplies for AI growth, though potentially at lower margins for Nvidia.The AI hardware sector, led by Nvidia, is experiencing a significant boom, with its segment of the Generative AI Stock Index surging 403%, driving overall market growth.

Nvidia shares are up 29% this year and 1,124% since the beginning of 2023. The company’s $100 billion investment in OpenAI raised questions about whether that rally would continue, according to the New York Times.
The most fundamental question is this: Is Nvidia using its own money – investments in Open AI, CoreWeave and others – to fuel growing demand for the company’s graphics processing units?
This brings back memories of the dot-com boom when Cisco Systems provided financing to startups to fuel growth in demand for the company’s networking equipment. Through its Cisco Capital arm, the company lent billions to money-losing telecom firms to buy Cisco’s products.
In the late 1990s, Cisco regularly reported 40% to 60% revenue growth and by 2000, 10% of the company’s $20 billion in revenue was attributable to such financing and leasing deals. When the dot-bubble burst in 2001, Cisco set aside $900 million in reserves for bad loans to those customers, reported the Los Angeles Times, and tightened its lending standards.
To be sure, if Nvidia's investments do not pay off, the GPU designer will not need to write off bad loans as Cisco did – but it could mark down the value of those investments on its balance sheet.
In the meantime, all of these investments make Nvidia and Open AI the lead companies in a V-shaped forward migration of AI technology providers.
Other segments of the industry – including chip makers and their suppliers, data center technology and energy providers, database companies, and many others, noted my book Brain Rush – are benefiting from this ongoing boom as evidenced by the 157% rise in my Generative AI Stock Index (compared to a 116% rise in the Nasdaq).
OpenAI is planning to build $1 trillion worth of data centers – $300 billion worth will be supplied with help from Oracle and another $100 billion from the Nvidia deal, reported the Wall Street Journal.
"Everything starts with compute," OpenAI CEO Sam Altman said in a statement. "Compute infrastructure will be the basis for the economy of the future, and we will utilize what we're building with Nvidia to both create new AI breakthroughs and empower people and businesses with them at scale."
If OpenAI – which last fall said it expected to lose $44 billion through 2029, noted the Journal – can find the cash to finance these data centers, the industry will keep expanding.
That may keep shares of Nvidia, Oracle, and many other participants in the AI ecosystem rising. If not, look out below.
An Nvidia spokesperson declined my request to comment.
Nvidia plans to invest $100 billion in OpenAI in $10 billion chunks. For every gigawatt of Nvidia-supported data centers OpenAI builds, Nvidia will invest $10 billion. For every $10 billion Nvidia invests, OpenAI will spend $35 billion on Nvidia chips, according to New Street Research analyst Pierre Ferragu whose work was featured in The Economist. OpenAI will pay for the chips through a blend of 71% in cash and 29% stock, noted NewStreet Research.
One worrisome aspect of this deal is its lower margins for Nvidia. “That arrangement reduces Nvidia’s typical margins for cutting-edge chips,” wrote the Journal, while the chip designer will benefit from ensuring steady GPU demand.
This deal also lowers OpenAI’s cost of capital due to Nvidia’s relatively sterling credit rating. Prior to this deal, OpenAI bought thousands of Nvidia’s chips through cloud service providers and neo-clouds – which buy chips and develop data center clusters – “renting them out at a premium,” the Journal reported.
These data center builders borrow money to finance their operations. Data center deals associated with money-losing companies such as OpenAI were financed at interest rates as high as 15%; whereas the interest rates for deals backed by Microsoft ranged from 6% to 9%, the Journal wrote.
Nvidia – which generated $72 billion in free cash flow over the last four quarters – seems to have ample interest free funds for financing its Open AI deal. It remains to be seen whether the chip designer will fund all $100 billion of its OpenAI commitment.
Mark Twain reportedly said history does not repeat itself, but sometimes it rhymes. Will Nvidia’s huge bets on money-losing companies such as OpenAI rhyme with Cisco’s aggressive lending to unprofitable telecom service providers?
It is too early to tell. However, Cisco’s lending during the dot-com boom “highlights the lengths to which one of the darlings of Wall Street would go to keep reporting revenue increases,” noted the Los Angeles Times.
For Cisco, a key question was whether the company booked revenue for these financing deals too soon. In some of the company’s deals, such as those of American Metrocomm and Digital Broadband Communications, Cisco recorded sales only when the customers began repaying the loans, the Los Angeles Times wrote.
In other cases, such as Rhythms NetConnections  – an Englewood, Colo. based Internet access provider owned by a then-major Cisco shareholder Bill Stensrud – “Cisco booked sales at the outset -- even before a penny had been collected and even when the customers were teetering toward a bankruptcy filing,” reported the Los Angeles Times.
Rhythms was unprofitable – reporting a loss of $36 million on $1 million in 1998 sales. But Cisco shipped $20 million of its equipment to Rhythms prior to the company’s April 1999 IPO. By August 2001, Rhythms had filed for bankruptcy leaving $30 million in unpaid debt to Cisco, according to the Los Angeles Times.
By 2003, Cisco was chastened. “Cisco recognized that there were risks involved” in its earlier strategy, the company said in a statement to the Los Angeles Times, “but the decision to proceed was made for sound business reasons and based on analysis of the facts that existed at the time.”
An economist who studied the telecom industry and reviewed documents about Cisco’s lending practices reached a sobering conclusion.
By making loans to so many distressed companies, “these guys were operating under a fallacy,” Massachusetts Institute of Technology economist Jerry Hausman told the Los Angeles Times. For a company to increase sales this way, he added, it’s like “you’re pumping yourself up on steroids,” Hausman added.
The takeaway? Investors should keep a close watch on how much of Nvidia’s revenue is coming from customers in which the chip designer has invested. Moreover, it’s worth investigating the accounting policies for recognizing revenue from such deals and quantifying their value on Nvidia’s balance sheet.
When Nvidia announced its investment in OpenAI, shares in other technology providers rose as well. Other stocks – notably Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, memory supplier SK Hynix, STMicro, Infineon and BE Semiconductor – gained ground, reported CNBC.
My Generative AI Stock Index, about which I wrote in a June 2014 Forbes post, aims to capture the stock market performance of companies in the following industry segments:
Overall, the GAISI has risen 157% between the beginning of January 2023 – the month ChatGPT reached 100 million subscribers – and September 24, 2025. Here is the average return for the four segments of the industry value network during that period:
The top performing industry segment was generative AI hardware – of which Nvidia (+1,124%)  and liquid cooling provider Vertiv (1,012%) – were the leading stocks. The worst performing sector was AI consulting – of which Gartner dropped most – down 23%.
Analysts gave mixed opinions about Nvidia’s investment. The good news is the investment assures things get built; the bad news is 'circularity’ – which I interpret to mean Nvidia is buying its own products through a third-party.
“On the one hand this helps OpenAI deliver on what are some very aspirational goals for compute infrastructure, and helps Nvidia ensure that that stuff gets built,” Bernstein analyst Stacy Rasgon told Reuters. “On the other hand the 'circular’ concerns have been raised in the past, and this will fuel them further,” Rasgon added.
Several analysts see the deal adding between $400 billion and $500 billion to Nvidia’s revenue. For example, “We estimate this deal ultimately translates into ~$400B of NVDA revenue over a multi-year period,” UBS analyst Timothy Arcuri said in a note Monday, reported Barron’s.
Another analyst shares Rasgon’s concerns about circularity and sees both Nvidia and OpenAI being better off. “So Nvidia has the demand for the chips, but are also investing, hoping that OpenAI itself becomes a good investment,” Creative Strategies CEO Ben Bajarin told the Times.
Circularity has led to problems in prior tech booms. If OpenAI can keep convincing investors to provide more capital, Nvidia has a chance of reporting better-than-expected results. Otherwise, AI could become a bubble that bursts.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 176.6505889892578

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 178.410400390625

NVDA price the day of article release: 176.9505615234375