$1 Trillion Question: Will Nvidia Dominate The Coming Ubiquitous AI Era?

Feb 21, 2024, 09:00am EST

George Gilder is confident that “at present, we're in the IBM mainframe era of AI.” This “AI gigantism,” he says, with its big data centers and billion-parameter models, is going to give way to AI “in every smart phone and every pocket, distributed through the internet of things.” As the new technology platform of the age, AI is going to be decentralized, ubiquitous and transformative.
Gilder made these observations last week, at a webinar for the OurCrowd community and the Gilder Private Reserve subscribers. A prolific writer and opinionated investment advisor, for more than forty years Gilder has preached the gospel of decentralization, autonomy, and life after bigness. His convictions cum predictions, while sometimes overstating and overestimating developments in the short term, tracked well the general trajectory of computer-based technologies, from the mainframe to the smartphone, and the digitization of everything.
Responding to Gilder, OurCrowd CEO Jon Medved said that “when you talk a decentralized world, you're going to need new accelerators, like new chips that can handle the low power requirements at the edge.” Edge AI is a fast-growing segment of the semiconductor industry and one of its key players is Hailo, an Israeli startup that was the main feature of the OurCrowd/Gilder webinar.
John Schroeder from the Gilder Private Reserve asked Hailo’s CEO Orr Danon to explain the recent developments in computing. AI represents a new approach to computing, Danon answered, in which learning from examples substitutes for traditional programs that provide the computer with a very specific set of instructions. This fundamental change is “an opportunity for a new player to come and take a significant market share,” said Danon.
Rethinking the traditional computer architecture, Hailo invented an AI processor enabling smart devices to perform sophisticated deep learning tasks with minimal power consumption, size, and cost. Hailo’s specialized processor fits into a multitude of smart machines and devices, including autonomous vehicles, smart cameras, smartphones, drones, AR/VR platforms, and wearables.
“Technologies like ours make it possible for applications to proliferate from the cloud to near where data is produced and consumed. If you're doing anything that requires a quick response, you have to be local,” said Danon.
The processing of data in the cloud and at the edge works hand-in-hand for AI applications. “Training is the phase where you teach the models what you want them to do. This is something that rarely makes sense in a local context,” Danon explained.
While there are a few edge cases where the knowledge required for training is very specific and local, for the majority of use cases it makes much more sense to do the training of the AI model by using the data that is stored in the cloud. But at the next phase of AI deployment, the inference stage, it makes more sense to do it at the edge. “Hailo is a complementary play to the more power hungry, extreme high-performance direction which Nvidia is taking,” said Danon.
Hailo’s chip not only cost less to manufacture and to buy, but it also requires only one or two watts for power consumption as opposed to an Nvidia chip which requires 60 or 70 watts. “Hailo’s architecture is based on a data flow approach rather than the traditional way CPUs and GPUs have been designed,” said Dannon. As such, it is “more suitable for the way today’s AI is being designed,” with a strong focus on performance benchmarks, both performance per dollar and performance per watt.
At stake is the global market for semiconductors which is projected to reach $1 trillion by 2030, according to McKinsey, which predicts that “semiconductors stand to dominate the next decade in global business.” Much of this growth is attributed to the rapid adoption of AI by businesses worldwide, leading to an expected $1 trillion in investment in semiconductor manufacturing capacity from 2023 to 2030. “This frenzy of global expansion could reshape the industry and disperse the balance of power around the world,” says McKinsey.
The projected demand for AI power and Nvidia’s current 80% share of the market for high-end AI chips have invited competition. OpenAI’s Sam Altman, reported the Wall Street Journal, is raising $5 to $7 trillion to boost the world’s chip-building capacity. AMD and Intel are introducing new AI-focused chips. Heavy AI users such as Google and Facebook are developing their own AI chips. And smaller companies are joining the race, such as customized AI servers developer Super Micro.
Nvidia is not sitting still and has responded to the new competition in a variety of ways. It has invested in AI startups. It has established a new business unit focused on designing custom chips for cloud computing firms and other companies, Reuters reports. It recently released Chat with RTX, a locally running AI assistant. Investors are bullish and Nvidia has recently surpassed Amazon and Alphabet to become the third-biggest U.S. company by market value.
Are we witnessing a tipping point, similar to the introduction of the smart phone in 2007? Is this another milestone in the nonstop progression of computer technology from big to small, from the data center to the edge? Is AI (i.e. artificial neural networks or deep learning) a new catalyst, just like the previous inventions of the internet (i.e. the world wide web) and the iPhone were the catalysts for an explosion in the production and consumption of data and a new phase in “data is eating the world”? Should we anticipate another reshuffling of the semiconductor deck, similar to how the near-monopolist Intel stumbled with no adequate response to the rise of mobile?
George Gilder knows the answer: “Nvidia has reached its climactic complexity and is going to give way to companies like Hailo in the future.”

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 72.61360168457031

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 69.4095687866211

NVDA price the day of article release: 67.4307861328125