ChatGPT’s Memory Boost, Sora Text-To-Video, And Nvidia’s PC Chatbot

Feb 15, 2024, 07:45pm EST

ChatGPT is getting a much-needed memory upgrade. Say goodbye to amnesia-like symptoms as the AI chatbot gains the ability to remember personal details, preferences, and context across conversations. It's like having a digital assistant that evolves with you over time. OpenAI's latest feature allows ChatGPT to store information in two ways: explicitly telling it to remember certain facts or letting it pick up relevant details from your chats. This persistent memory is a game-changer. It will also be a huge boost to the creation of GPTs, which are particularly hindered by the problem.
OpenAI unveils Sora, which will generate videos up to a minute long from a text prompt. Honestly, this could be just as big as the memory upgrade. If you click the link in the headline you’ll see even more demos of this amazing new tool, which is a big upgrade of Dall-E 3. It is hard to overstate how this could affect not just the media business, not just social media, but how we express ourselves and communicate on a personal level.
NVIDIA introduces a free demo of a locally run AI chatbot, Chat with RTX, that accesses and analyzes users' files for query responses. Unlike most chatbots, it doesn't send data to the cloud, making it safer and preserving context. By feeding it personal data, users can obtain customized summaries. The chatbot supports various file formats and integrates YouTube content for contextual queries, making it useful for data analysis and research. However, it requires Windows PCs with NVIDIA GPUs and has limitations and bugs common to a demo product. NVIDIA's recent AI advancements, including its next-generation AI chips and record profits, have elevated its position to the world's third-largest company.
A US district judge in California largely sided with OpenAI, dismissing most claims brought by authors. Authors, including comedian Sarah Silverman and author Michael Chabon, alleged ChatGPT's training on their copyrighted works constituted a high-tech form of piracy. They cited potential violations of copyright law and state laws on business practices. The judge ruled the authors failed to sufficiently prove most of their claims, save for the possibility of direct copyright infringement. Meanwhile, the US Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) has issued a new ruling impacting AI-inventorship. In the Thaler v. Vidal case, the ruling clarifies that only a natural person can be recognized as an inventor on a patent. This decision means that while AI can be a powerful tool, it cannot independently hold intellectual property rights.
Zuck’s “review” of Apple’s Vision Pro Widely Mocked. Mark Zuckerberg is a genius, but like most people, he does not see himself as others do. His lack of self-awareness leads him to do dumb stuff. He didn’t need to say anything about the Vison Pro. Let Apple have their moment. It comes off as petulant. Someone, probably someone who doesn’t work for Zuck, isn’t related to him, and isn’t a billionaire, should level with him. Ok. I’ll go: “Zuck, you are prone to oversharing, implusivity and vanity. Your genius does not extend to acting (remember this?) or even making videos for your own social media. It feels like bragging.” The Instagram reel drew lots of fawning comments. I guess that’s who follows Zuck. Or maybe the account supresses negative comments. Sophomoric moves aside, Zuck is once again rescued by his genius: Meta’s new Ray Ban audio smart glasses have become a sleeper hit.

Low utilization of Quest headsets continues to be a problem. Because of the performance of “Assassin’s Creed Creed Nexus” VR last year, Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot expressed disappointment on the company’s earnings call, and said they will not invest much in VR until the market matures. It sucks when your hit game tanks.
Are people returning Apple’s new Vision Pro headsets? ZDNet and the Verge pointed to the closing 14 day return window. The number one complaint about the Apple Vision Pro is weight. There have been reports of motion sickness, too. Some have said it’s not great for productivity, but some stories say the opposite. There’s not a lot of software yet. Inside the business, everyone understands the AVP is primarily a developer unit, but it’s also made available to wealthy Apple fans willing to shell out $5,000 (with case, tax, etc.) and marketed heavily by the company. Though it’s possible, I’ll be shocked if returns are a thing.
This Week in XR is also a podcast hosted by the author of this column, Ted Schilowitz, Futurist, Paramount Global, and Rony Abovitz, founder of Magic Leap. This week our guest is Suzanne Haspinger, co-founder and Chief Operating Officer of HoloLight. We can be found on Spotify, iTunes, and YouTube.
We’re Reading Books!
Making A Metaverse, by James Wagner Au. Reviewed by Tony Vittillo on The Skarred Ghost Blog.
Our Next Reality, by Alvin Graylin and Louis Rosenberg. I laughed when Alvin predicted the Metaverse will be talked into existence with AI.
Spatial Computing: An AI-Driven Business Revolution by Cathy Hackl and Irena Cronin, two of the industry’s most prolific and deeply knowledgeable authors and thought leaders.
Spatial Design: Breaking the 2D Paradigm by by Dominique Wu, foreword by Inga Petryaevskaya
Other stories that matter this week
Mastering the Art of Prompt Engineering, Shelly Palmer
AI companies including Google, Microsoft and Meta, are planning to sign an agreement committing to developing technology that controls AI-generated content ahead of elections. But the statement does not require them to ban deceptive political content. (Gerrit De Vynck / Washington Post)

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 72.20387268066406

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 73.85486602783203

NVDA price the day of article release: 72.61360168457031