Up 269% In 2023, Vertiv Stock Could Outperform Nvidia Shares In 2024

Dec 31, 2023, 03:58pm EST

Which stock benefited most from 2023’s boom in Generative AI? If you thought the winner is Santa Clara, Calif.-based Nvidia — the chip designer with 85% of the market for the GPUs that power ChatGPT and other large language models — you would be wrong.
The right answer is Vertiv — a provider of power-management and cooling equipment for data centers — located in Westerville, Ohio.
While Nvidia stock — up 246% in 2023 — came in second place in my Generative AI Stock Index, Vertiv shares led the pack by popping 269% this year.
Does the steep rise in its share price mean it is too late to buy Vertiv stock? I don’t know for sure — but it’s clearly a leader in a fast-growing industry being propelled by demand for the LLMs that power Generative AI.
Before getting into all of that, let’s take a look at the GAISI. It keys off Brain Rush — a book I am writing about Generative AI — part of which explores how to invest and compete in the business ecosystem powering those buzzy chatbots.
The GAISI — which rose 82% in 2023 compared to 43% for the Nasdaq Composite — tracks a subset of publicly traded stocks in five industries supporting Generative AI.
Below I list the GAISI’s industry components and provide the stock market performance of the average company I tracked in each:


For now, I will set aside a discussion of which companies are included in each sub-industry and why Generative AI hardware stocks did better than the other four.
I will say the hardware category includes Nvidia and Vertiv — both of which were the only companies whose share prices increased more than 200% in 2023.
Vertiv has undergone many corporate transformations before emerging as a leading beneficiary of the Generative AI boom.
Vertiv was formerly the network-power business of Emerson ElectricEMR built with help from the 2010 acquisition for $1.5 billion of Chloride Group. Emerson later took a $508 million write-down on that deal – causing its former CEO Dave Farr to express his regret for getting into the industry, according to Bloomberg.
Emerson acquired the business in 2016 and sold it to Platinum Equity for $4 billion. In 2020, the business – called Vertiv – went public by merging with a Goldman Sachs-led special purpose acquisition company. Vertiv’s Executive Chair Dave Cote had previously served as CEO of Honeywell, Bloomberg noted, and as an executive at GE.
In 2023, Vertiv was a major beneficiary of data centers’ need to cool off the GPU-laden computing systems used to train and operate LLMs. As Bank of AmericaBAC analyst Andrew Obin wrote in a June 2023 report, a 10% increase in power use would require “a more than 10% increase in electrical-equipment capacity because of the need for redundant infrastructure to help guard against power failures,” Bloomberg reported.
Higher power means more heat generated – creating demand for equipment to cool down the servers to ambient temperature. Vertiv’s liquid cooling systems solved the problem of overheated data centers very effectively. In June 2023, Vertiv was struggling to satisfy demand for its products from data centers processing Generative AI workloads.
About a third of  Vertiv’s revenue came from hyperscale data-center customers – considerably higher than the single-digit percentages at larger rivals such as Eaton and Schneider, noted Obin.
Vertiv provides immersive cooling systems and other products for data centers hosting Generative AI applications. The level of densely packed servers doing calculations all day long boosts the amount of heat that data centers must remove to keep the equipment from overheating, as I wrote in November.
Liquid cooling — which circulates water or other coolants through heat exchangers to absorb the heat generated by computer components — is more efficient than fans or air conditioning, KPMG Managing Director Brian Lewis said.
Despite the advantage, data center operators need to make sure their buildings can handle the added weight of liquid cooling products. “Liquid cooling adds weight because it is sitting on the floor and is embedded into the circuit boards,” Forrester ResearchFORR senior analyst Abhijit Sunil told me in November. “It is heavier than air cooled which has big fans blowing in the data center.”
To satisfy the demands Generative AI places on data centers, Vertiv offers products including the following:


In 2023, Vertiv’s performance and prospects appeared strong. However, the trajectory of its stock price depends on whether the company continues to exceed investor expectations. Vertiv has two things going in its favor:


In 2023, Wall Street analysts were optimistic about Vertiv stock. Deutsche Bank wrote, “Vertiv clearly caught the AI wave,” in a September 14 research note. The firm — which raised its price target to $48 per share — saw potential for more than 50% further upside “if data center investments continue growing at a double-digit clip,” I wrote in November.
Meanwhile, EvercoreEVR ISI saw Vertiv as an industry leader. In an October 1 investor note, the firm wrote the company “has the top market share for thermal management solutions and is a powerhouse in the arena.” Evercore added the company’s association with Leibert — the inventor of precision cooling — gave Vertiv an advantage over rivals such as Eaton and APC.
Moreover, Evercore — which set a $50 price target on the company’s shares — noted Vertiv offers contracts on energy savings “to earn higher payouts, if a higher percentage of operating expenses is saved,” I noted last month.
Vertiv was optimistic about its future. The company expected strong demand for products related to Generative AI as well as products to help data centers handle more traditional processing. “If we talk about technologies that are applied to high-density GPU or compute, as for example, liquid cooling, GPUs or some rack-level power distribution solutions. I will still say our order book is in the tens of millions of dollars,” Vertiv CEO Giordano Albertazzi told investors in October.
He added, “Many elements of our portfolio, chillers, direct expansion cooling, heat rejection systems, switchgear, busbars, UPS, you name them are used — regardless if GPU or CPU compute, high density or normal density. The majority of our products will support many types of compute, including AI. That is the beauty of having a comprehensive portfolio of all critical infrastructure technologies, across the entire span of the powertrain, the thermal chain and IT-wide space infrastructure, something that very few companies truly have.”
Although Nvidia — its revenue soared 205% in the third quarter — is growing much faster than Vertiv,  the chip giant faces headwinds due to U.S. limitations on the power of the chips it can ship to China. That could make it difficult for Nvidia to sustain its rapid growth pace.
Vertiv expects 20% revenue growth and could grow even faster than that.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 49.2488899230957

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 49.49174118041992

NVDA price the day of article release: 49.49174118041992