Nvidia Q3 Earnings Explode On Surging Data Center AI And Gaming Demand

Nov 22, 2023, 11:57am EST

At this point, Nvidia is widely regarded as the 800 pound gorilla, when it comes to silicon and software for artificial intelligence. The foundation the company built on its CUDA software, way back in the early days of machine learning, is now paying off with explosive demand for its Hopper GPUs that accelerate inference and training in AI applications. Recommendation engines, natural language processing, and generative AI large language models like ChatGPT all are being accelerated on Nvidia platforms. In addition, the company posted what I would call balanced growth across literally all of its business units, with sell-through of its gaming-targeted GeForce GPUs, as well as pro-visualization workstation GPUs, leading a strong charge to complement demand for the company’s AI chips. All in, Nvidia's third fiscal quarter saw a 3X year-over-year surge to $18.12 billion, resulting in a 34% gain versus the previous quarter, to a new level of record revenue and $10 billion in bottom line profit.
Getting into business unit specifics, Nvidia’s Data Center group chalked-up $14.5 billion in revenue for the quarter, resulting in a 41% sequential gain and a massive 279% quarter on quarter lift over the same period last year. Nvidia’s Data Center business is also likely its highest margin business, where the company’s GPU accelerator technology has become the de facto standard for AI workload processing. “"Our strong growth reflects the broad industry platform transition from general-purpose to accelerated computing and generative AI," noted Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of Nvidia. "Large language model startups, consumer internet companies and global cloud service providers were the first movers, and the next waves are starting to build. Nations and regional CSPs are investing in AI clouds to serve local demand, enterprise software companies are adding AI copilots and assistants to their platforms, and enterprises are creating custom AI to automate the world’s largest industries."
Beyond AI, as I mentioned previously, all of Nvidia’s BUs realized quarterly growth. Though its Automotive group rose a modest 3% to $261M, the company’s automotive design win pipeline is projected at $14 billion in new business (numbers soon to be updated). Automotive design wins have a longer gestation period, and the company has noted that this revenue impact opportunity will begin materializing in 2024 and beyond. Shifting to Nvidia's Professional Visualization business unit, sequential growth of 9.8% to $416 million was achieved, while the company’s OEM And Other business grew 10.6% to $73 million. Finally, Nvidia’s Gaming group delivered $2.856 billion for the quarter, compared to $2.49 billion in its previous Q2 quarter (up about 15%), and $2.24 billion quarter on quarter from a year ago. Here again, the company’s gaming GPUs and software are widely respected as the performance and feature leaders currently in the PC Gaming industry, though its chief rival AMD is beginning to execute better with its Radeon product line, along with its potent Ryzen CPUs as a 1-2 punch platform solution.
Moving forward, the company guided for a nice round $20 billion for its Q4 FY24 number, representing a projected 11% sequential gain. There will be a bit of headwind of course, from competitors like AMD that is expected to deliver its MI300 GPU AI accelerators in December at its Advancing AI event. That said, it’s going to be a tough slog for all competitors, due to Nvidia’s long-building inertia as the clear leader and incumbent in AI. Another component of the company’s data center silicon portfolio is just coming online now as well, with its Grace-Hopper combined CPU-GPU Superchip, competing for host processor AI data center sockets, which Huang noted is "on a very, very fast ramp with our first data center CPU to a multi-billion dollar product line."
Any way you slice it, there’s no stopping Nvidia from this level of growth for the foreseeable future, as AI adoption tracks a similar curve. The company continues to execute like a finely tuned machine, and the numbers, as they say, don’t lie.
Dave co-founded and is principal analyst at HotTech Vision And Analysis, a tech industry analyst firm specializing in consulting, test validation and go-to-market strategies for major chip and system OEMs. Like all analyst firms, HTVA provides paid services, research and consulting to many chip manufacturers and system OEMs, including companies mentioned in this article. However, this does not influence his unbiased, objective coverage.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 49.26355743408203

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 49.90909576416016

NVDA price the day of article release: 48.68195343017578