Nvidia Gives Robotics A Major Upgrade

Oct 19, 2023, 11:51am EDT

Nvidia has announced what the company called its “largest-ever platform expansion for Edge AI and Robotics,” and rightfully so. In typical Nvidia fashion, the company is bringing together years of work on several different software platforms to meet the needs of a very specific application – robotics. Nvidia has been developing solutions for robotics, or what should more appropriately be called autonomous machines, for more than a decade. In conjunction with the company’s investment in artificial intelligence (AI) and autonomous vehicles, Nvidia was one of the first tech companies to see the potential in future robotics platforms leveraging AI and technology developed for other segments, including automotive.
he announcement includes adapting generative AI (GenAI) models to the Jetson Orin platform, the availability of Metropolis APIs and microservices for vision applications, the release of the latest Isaac ROS (Robot Operating System) framework and Isaac AMR (autonomous mobile robot) platform, and the release of the JetPack 6 software development kit (SDK). According to Nvidia, these releases include more value than all the other releases over the past 10 years combined. All the areas highlighted in green in the figure below are new or updated in this platform release.
One of the most significant enhancements is support for GenAI. As we at Tirias Research have indicated in previous articles, GenAI will be transformative for not just people, but also machines. Nvidia is working to enable zero-shot learning, which will enable devices to learn and predict results based on classes of data rather than being trained on specific samples. This will allow for shorter training cycles and more flexible interactions with and use of the resulting models. Nvidia is also predicting a new innovation cycle for autonomous machines as much of the learning shifts from text-based solutions to video or multi-modal (text, audio & video) training. Nvidia also included its new transformer PeopleNet model to increase the accuracy of people identification. But most important is the capability of the Orin platform to execute large language models (LLMs). According to Nvidia, the platform can handle most of the available LLMs and gave examples of models that were as large as the 70-billion parameter version of Meta’s Llama 2 model. In addition, Nvidia has created a Jetson Generative AI Lab for developers to start working with open-source models on the edge.
To enable this surge in video-based learning and further development around computer vision, Nvidia is also enhancing its Metropolis framework with APIs and microservices for rapid development and management of enterprise applications. This framework extends beyond just the vision, referred to as “pixel perception” in the image below, to include other software solutions that allow a developer to build out a complete computer vision platform for a variety of different applications in which the equipment, connectivity, and vision requirements may vary.
The third part of the release is the enhancement to the Isaac software stack, including the general availability of the Isaac ROS 2.0 GPU-accelerated framework built on the open-source Robotic Operating System (ROS), a new release of the Isaac Sim 2023.1 for the generation of synthetic data and robotics simulation, and Isaac AMR for the development of autonomous mobile robots.
And the final part of the release is JetPack 6, which provides new features, including support for commercial new Linux distributions, new system services, and easily upgradable compute stack and advanced security features.
While these announcements are not about a new hardware platform, they demonstrate how critical software is, which I would argue is more impactful than the hardware as it relates to AI and autonomous machines. It also demonstrates Nvidia’s continued innovation on a platform/solution level. Tirias Research has had the opportunity to evaluate the various Nvidia platforms over the past decade and there is nothing that compares to the ease of use, extensive tutorials, software resources, and performance of the Nvidia Jetson platforms in our opinion. Robots are key to continued improvements in productivity in every industry from agriculture to manufacturing, and like AI training, Nvidia appears to have a strong leadership position with more than 1.2 million developers and 10,000 companies designing with the Jetson platform.
The author and members of the Tirias Research staff do not hold equity positions in any of the companies mentioned. Tirias Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud. Tirias Research has consulted for Nvidia and companies throughout the semiconductor and embedded/IoT electronics ecosystems.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 46.06279754638672

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 42.16651153564453

NVDA price the day of article release: 42.07158660888672