Laptops For STEM Students Get A Boost From Nvidia GeForce RTX 40 Series

Aug 16, 2023, 12:44pm EDT

This time of year, technical students from all disciplines are picking their heads up from summer vacation, and organizing themselves with respect to the tools they’ll need for the coming school year. In an ever-more technical workforce, the need for the right computing hardware and software toolset is critical to help prepare students in their career paths. And especially for students in the STEM disciplines (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics), a capable laptop is simply a prerequisite. This is one of the primary reasons NVIDIA created its STEM Laptop initiative, in an effort to appeal to students working in these areas that can benefit greatly from GPU-accelerated processing to drive these specialized workloads, along with assuring compatibility and reliability with many of the most widely used STEM apps.
Whether students are engaged in 3D design and architecture, or more scientific areas like data science, life sciences, economics, computer science, and of course machine learning and artificial intelligence, certain critical software tool suites are required for coursework, application development and project work. Here industry bellwether apps like SolidWorks, AutoDesk, MATLAB and Blender are now joined by new cutting-edge packages like Unreal, Unity, PyTorch, TensorFlow and Windows ML – all of which are now accelerated by NVIDIA GeForce RTX GPUs.
With respect to its most recent crop of GeForce RTX 40 series GPUs, the company notes “GeForce RTX 40 Series laptops provide GPU acceleration for dozens of STEM tools and applications, so you can get out of the computer lab and finish coursework sooner. With GeForce RTX, you’ll be prepared for both lower-level and upper-level coursework. You’ll be able to work faster and take your homework with you, giving you more time to explore the topics that interest you.”
NVIDIA’s Laptops for STEM initiative not only highlights a strong performance boost in these applications, as well as specific optimizations in these apps, but the company has also helped to co-develop a wide array of laptops with its OEM partners that feature the latest GeForce RTX 40 series mobile GPUs. Big laptop brands like HP, Samsung, ASUS, MSI, Razer and Acer are all in the mix here, from thin and light 15-inch models to beefier, more powerful but still portable 16 and 17-inch models.
In fact, my good friend Ben Funk, over at HotHardware, took the all-new ASUS Vivobook 16 Pro for a spin around the test track with a few of his favorite STEM apps, like SolidWorks and MATLAB. Ben observed that, “SolidWorks 2023 demonstrated the performance difference between utilizing a discrete GPU like the GeForce RTX 4060 versus relying on a system's CPU to do all the heavy lifting, and it's a pretty big win for NVIDIA. As expected, the GPU is more than nine times faster compared to the Core i9-13900H in the VivoBook 16 Pro, when performing a final render of a project like the included BlackOwl PC benchmark.”
And with respect to MATLAB performance, Ben noted that, “MATLAB is a wildly popular application... It's extremely useful for simulations, and it benefits greatly from having a discrete GPU. The above demonstrates one of the more extreme examples, where with the Boids Flocking algorithm, the GeForce RTX 4060 is able to run each step in the simulation approximately six times faster than the Intel Core i9-13900H (CPU).”
In other words, GPU-acceleration in these STEM applications is not only very tangible to the end-user, but if you’re in crunch mode on a project, it could mean the difference between having time to make another pass for error checking, or even getting a project submitted on time.
Now obviously there are other discrete GPU-enabled laptops on the market, with AMD and Intel discrete graphics on board, that will also help accelerate some (but not all) of these STEM workloads. However, NVIDIA has specifically been hard at work optimizing app performance on GeForce, as well as helping to validate app and system-level experiences for compatibility and reliability.
NVIDIA’s STEM Laptop campaign is similar to its RTX Studio Laptop campaign for content creators, which also had a GeForce RTX 40 series refresh recently. As a result, back-to-school tools for gifted creators and STEM students have never been more robust than they are right now, just in time for the leaves to fall.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 40.82309341430664

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 43.90567398071289

NVDA price the day of article release: 43.4520378112793