Nvidia's RTX And DLSS3 Cyberpunk Support Demonstrate Why These Features Are The Future Of Gaming

Feb 01, 2023, 11:45am EST

Nvidia's next-generation Deep Learning Super Sampling 3 (DLSS 3) technology now supports one of the most popular and most demanding AAA video games, Cyberpunk 2077. If you were a gamer in the mid-2000s, you probably heard the question, "can it run Crysis?" Crysis at the time was a very demanding game that even the worthiest of gaming setups—including setups with multiple high-end GPUS could not keep up with what was, at the time, the future of gaming. Flash forward to today, and the question looming over the past couple of years has been, "can it run Cyberpunk 2077?"
From desktop GPUs to laptop GPUs, Nvidia's GeForce RTX 40 series GPUs have taken graphics performance and experience to a whole other level. I believe Cyberpunk 2077's support for DLSS 3 is in part a testimony to Nvidia's gaming leadership and a payoff to the investments it’s made.
Nvidia announced new products at CES 2023, which you can read about here, its GeForce RTX 40 series desktop and laptop GPUs as well as over 50 AAA games that now support or will soon support Nvidia's DLSS 3 technology. Cyberpunk 2077 is one of those 50 and is one of the best games to showcase the capabilities of Nvidia's Ray Tracing and AI-enhanced graphics capabilities.
Nvidia says Cyberpunk 2077 uses several ray tracing techniques to render a massive future city at incredible levels of detail and gives gamers a peek into the future of PC gaming. The game has a mode called "Psycho mode" in the ray tracing lighting settings that creates what Nvidia says is a visually stunning gaming experience with sprawling cityscapes that use subtle shadows to define depth.
Nvidia's DLSS 3 uses AI to make Cyberpunk’s Psycho mode playable. Systems with an RTX 4070 Ti, RTX 4080, are getting over quadruple the frames per second (fps) and triple the fps with an RTX 4090 at max settings and 4K resolution (3840x2160). These are unbelievable performance numbers for a game that is supposed to be one of the most demanding AAA games on the market.
Nvidia also mentioned that the addition of DLSS 3 sets the stage for Cyberpunk 2077 'Ray Tracing: Overdrive Mode," which looks to enhance the games visuals even more. Nvidia says it is the next iteration of "but can it play" and in the front seat will be Nvidia's GeForce RTX 40 series graphics cards.
What's even cooler is that as DLSS continues to improve through ongoing training on Nvidia's AI Supercomputer. Games that support DLSS 3 will continue to get better and better, and more AAA games will continue to support Nvidia's DLSS 3.
Wrapping up
Cyberpunk 2077 is not a game to mess around with; it takes compute intensive hardware and a lot of performance to run. Nvidia continues to raise the bar for the gaming experience, and I believe its release and continued support of DLSS 3 and RTX features for over 50 games is huge for the gaming community. Nvidia is investing real silicon and software, billions of extra dollars to support these two features that I believe are the future of the gaming experience, available today. Rasterization performance is one thing, but when combining that with super-sampling and ray tracing, it really is a triad of awesomeness.

I am excited to see Cyberpunk 2077's next-level Ray Tracing: Overdrive Mode and how Nvidia's DLSS 3 feature brings it to an even higher level.
Note: Moor Insights & Strategy co-op Jacob Freyman contributed to this article.
Moor Insights & Strategy, like all research and tech industry analyst firms, provides or has provided paid services to technology companies. These services include research, analysis, advising, consulting, benchmarking, acquisition matchmaking, and speaking sponsorships. The company has had or currently has paid business relationships with 8×8, Accenture, A10 Networks, Advanced Micro Devices, Amazon, Amazon Web Services, Ambient Scientific, Anuta Networks, Applied Brain Research, Applied Micro, Apstra, Arm, Aruba Networks (now HPE), Atom Computing, AT&T, Aura, Automation Anywhere, AWS, A-10 Strategies, Bitfusion, Blaize, Box, Broadcom, , C3.AI, Calix, Campfire, Cisco Systems, Clear Software, Cloudera, Clumio, Cognitive Systems, CompuCom, Cradlepoint, CyberArk, Dell, Dell EMC, Dell Technologies, Diablo Technologies, Dialogue Group, Digital Optics, Dreamium Labs, D-Wave, Echelon, Ericsson, Extreme Networks, Five9, Flex, Foundries.io, Foxconn, Frame (now VMware), Fujitsu, Gen Z Consortium, Glue Networks, GlobalFoundries, Revolve (now Google), Google Cloud, Graphcore, Groq, Hiregenics, Hotwire Global, HP Inc., Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Honeywell, Huawei Technologies, IBM, Infinidat, Infosys, Inseego, IonQ, IonVR, Inseego, Infosys, Infiot, Intel, Interdigital, Jabil Circuit, Keysight, Konica Minolta, Lattice Semiconductor, Lenovo, Linux Foundation, Lightbits Labs, LogicMonitor, Luminar, MapBox, Marvell Technology, Mavenir, Marseille Inc, Mayfair Equity, Meraki (Cisco), Merck KGaA, Mesophere, Micron Technology, Microsoft, MiTEL, Mojo Networks, MongoDB, National Instruments, Neat, NetApp, Nightwatch, NOKIA (Alcatel-Lucent), Nortek, Novumind, NVIDIA, Nutanix, Nuvia (now Qualcomm), onsemi, ONUG, OpenStack Foundation, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Panasas, Peraso, Pexip, Pixelworks, Plume Design, PlusAI, Poly (formerly Plantronics), Portworx, Pure Storage, Qualcomm, Quantinuum, Rackspace, Rambus, Rayvolt E-Bikes, Red Hat, Renesas, Residio, Samsung Electronics, Samsung Semi, SAP, SAS, Scale Computing, Schneider Electric, SiFive, Silver Peak (now Aruba-HPE), SkyWorks, SONY Optical Storage, Splunk, Springpath (now Cisco), Spirent, Splunk, Sprint (now T-Mobile), Stratus Technologies, Symantec, Synaptics, Syniverse, Synopsys, Tanium, Telesign,TE Connectivity, TensTorrent, Tobii Technology, Teradata,T-Mobile, Treasure Data, Twitter, Unity Technologies, UiPath, Verizon Communications, VAST Data, Ventana Micro Systems, Vidyo, VMware, Wave Computing, Wellsmith, Xilinx, Zayo, Zebra, Zededa, Zendesk, Zoho, Zoom, and Zscaler.
Moor Insights & Strategy founder, CEO, and Chief Analyst Patrick Moorhead is an investor in dMY Technology Group Inc. VI, Dreamium Labs, Groq, Luminar Technologies, MemryX, and Movandi.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 20.34353446960449

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 19.51640510559082

NVDA price the day of article release: 20.92092514038086