NVIDIA Launches Salvo Of Gaming GPUs, New Omniverse And Autonomous Driving Tech At CES 2022

Jan 04, 2022, 12:53pm EST

As usual in January, NVIDIA took to the stage for the Consumer Electronics Show (CES 2022), with a heavy launch of competitive technologies aimed at personal experiences for all walks of life. This year’s virtual CES NVIDIA keynote punctuated the company’s commitment to advancing PC gaming in mobile and on the desktop, as well as building new tools for metaverse-enabled collaboration and innovations for autonomous vehicles. Underpinned by AI processing across platforms, these are some of the key focus areas the Santa Clara chip powerhouse is making strides in for mainstream consumers, PC gamers and creators. NVIDIA GeForce SVP Jeff Fisher kicked off a presentation, which was packed with new PC gaming and graphics disclosures, including new GPUs for gaming laptops and desktop PCs as well.
Quick to underscore the company’s penetration in the high growth gaming laptop segment, Fisher noted more than 160 thin and light laptop design wins now employ NVIDIA GeForce RTX 30 series GPUs, and today the company is rolling out two new high-end options dubbed GeForce RTX 3080 Ti and RTX 3070 Ti. GeForce RTX 3080 Ti will now be NVIDIA’s top-end mobile GPU, strapped with a full 16GB of GDDR6 memory that the company claims will deliver faster than desktop TITAN RTX class performance. Details were sparse here, beyond memory footprint and performance claims but powerful RTX 3080 Ti laptops will hit retail starting at $2499 in early February this year. Details were also scant on NVIDIA’s new GeForce RTX 3070 Ti mobile GPU, though the company claims equipped laptops will be able to drive 1440p resolutions in triple-A game titles at 100 FPS (Frames Per Second), and pricing will start at $1499 for this class of machine.
This new breed of gaming and NVIDIA RTX Studio laptops for creators, will also offer the company’s 4th gen Max-Q technology that utilizes AI algorithms to balance GPU and CPU power distribution and resource utilization to optimize image quality, frame rate and battery life. For creators, NVIDIA’s Rapid Core Scaling technologies on the GPU will optimize workloads with finer grained resource management, while its CPU Optimizer tech manages power delivery to the host CPU as well, transferring available power budget to the GPU when it’s needed most. Combined with the company’s new Battery Boost 2.0 tech, NVIDIA claims RTX Studio and gaming laptops can deliver up to 70 percent more battery life and better performance overall. You can expect RTX Studio and gaming laptops from the usual suspects like ASUS, MSI and Razer, all of which will be unveiling machines this week at CES 2022.
And speaking of RTX Studio laptops, NVIDIA offered an update to its Omniverse platform, which you should think of as connective tissue of sorts, that allows game developers, movie creators and other creative professionals to work in their native software and tools environments, in a collaborative 3D metaverse. NVIDIA Omniverse employs an open-standard language called Universal Scene Description (USD — developed by Pixar) that allows a myriad of tools like Autodesk Revit, Maya, SketchUp, and more, from a total of 40 software development partners currently, to work together seamlessly in virtual worlds and workspaces. “This is the future of 3D content creation and how virtual worlds will be built,” Fisher proclaimed. With new features like Audio2Face, which is an AI powered app that animates 3D rendered faces from an audio track and also exports from Epic’s MetaHuman character generation technology, NVIDIA Omniverse has now hit free general availability for GeForce RTX powered desktop and Studio laptop creators.
Not to be outdone by the laptop crowd, desktop gamers and creators were also treated to announcements for some of their own muscle at both budget price points and the ultra-high end of PC gaming. NVIDIA’s new GeForce RTX 3050 is a $249 entry-level offering that’s targeted at supplanting the company’s legacy GeForce GTX 1650 offering and is claimed to deliver 60 FPS performance levels with ray tracing enabled at 1080p resolutions. The new RTX 3050 will be made available from NVIDIA’s board partners like ASUS, EVGA, MSI and others, and will come equipped with 8GB of GDDR6 memory. This graphics card offering is about addressing the meat of the market, where some of the highest volumes are sold, with a new highly competitive option. With 256 CUDA cores, 20 2nd gen RT Cores, 80 3rd gen Tensor cores and a 1777MHz boost clock, GeForce RTX 3050 should slot in just under a GeForce RTX 3060 and offer a really nice boost in performance at its price point, while offering both hardware-accelerated ray tracing and NVIDIA DLSS 2.0 support. Here’s hoping its MSRP holds-up in current market conditions, but on paper GeForce RTX 3050 is looking like a compelling reason to upgrade for entry level gamers, and will be available starting January 27th.
And in their usual “but there’s one more thing” kind of fashion, NVIDIA officially teased the new GeForce RTX 3090 Ti that has been flying around rumor mill as of late.  GeForce RTX 3090 Ti (seen above in the hero shot here) will come equipped with a whopping 24GB of GDDR6X memory at a blistering 21Gbit/s data rate. Details are sparse here but the company claims GeForce RTX 3090 Ti “will crank out 40 teraflops for shaders, 78 teraflops for ray tracing and a whopping 320 teraflops of AI muscle.” That’s a ton of horsepower and it’s a massive graphics card to be sure, but NVIDIA notes more details will be revealed later this month, so I’ll keep you posted.
Finally, closing out the NVIDIA keynote the company offered an update on the evolution and adoption of its Drive Hyperion platform for autonomous cars and trucks. The company notes Drive Hyperion has been adopted by Volvo-backed Polestar and China-based NIO, Xpeng, Li Auto and others. However, for those of you that haven’t seen or experienced the capabilities of NVIDIA’s Drive Hyperion and Drive Concierge platforms, I’d highly suggest hitting play on the video above for a great demo that the company has put together to show what it will be capable of. Someday, in the not too distant future, the vision of just hopping in your car, telling it where you want to go and how you want to get there (in style of course) will be a reality, and it’s really cool to which NVIDIA’s technology evolve in this space.
There will likely be more to come out of CES 2022 for NVIDIA. However, keeping up with the company’s announcements today, you can see that the GPU juggernaut is keenly focused on fueling innovation with AI, compute resources and platforms that will enable new services and experiences, some of which may sound like science fiction but are quickly becoming reality.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 29.52720260620117

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 30.06113815307617

NVDA price the day of article release: 29.231788635253903