Nvidia’s Aerial Brings GPUs To AI On 5G

Jun 29, 2021, 08:00am EDT

It turns out we’ve been getting it wrong all along.
We’ve all been told that AI by itself, 5G by itself, and edge computing by itself were all supposed to trigger monumental changes in computing. As a result, we’ve built up expectations around what each of these technologies was supposed to enable on their own, but frankly, the real-world results have been disappointing.
People are starting to figure out that you need all three of them working together simultaneously to feel their full impact. It’s the combination of the speed and low latency of 5G, plus the extended reach of edge computing, and the intelligence of AI that can power the kinds of impactful applications and futuristic scenarios that we were all originally promised with 5G.
To its credit, Nvidia seems to have recognized this point a while ago. The company used this year’s MWC to explain some of the critical details of its strategy in these areas, leveraging its previously announced Aerial A100 efforts. Specifically, the company described its AI on 5G platform, highlighting both the software developments and semiconductor roadmap necessary to bring AI-driven, 5G-delivered edge computing applications to life, while also enabling vRAN and Open RAN functionality—all within a single server.
There’s a lot to unpack here, so let’s start with the basics. Nvidia has been offering enterprise-focused, GPU accelerated, AI software for some time now through its EGX platform and its CUDA-based software development tools. A few months back, the company also announced Aerial 5G, a software-based development platform that was created to let an Open RAN software stack, virtualized network functions (VNF), and other telecom-related workloads run in an accelerated manner on Nvidia GPU-equipped servers.
The Aerial A100 is a plug-in accelerator card for x86-based servers that incorporates an Ampere generation GPU and BlueField DPU (version 2.0). In conjunction with the Aerial 5G software, the combination lets you create a software-defined piece of 5G network infrastructure leveraging COTS, or commercial off-the-shelf, servers from companies like Dell, HPE, etc. Because the card is identical to other ones being used to accelerate AI application-focused servers running Nvidia’s EGX platform, the exact same server could also run CUDA-powered AI applications.
As it turns out, the parallel processing capabilities of GPUs that makes them so well suited for running AI and machine learning-based applications are also very well suited to run a fully O-RAN 7.2 compliant 5G RAN software stack capable of full Layer 1 acceleration. In fact, in conjunction with the BlueField-2 DPU, which is optimized for efficiently moving chunks of data around in cloud-native, edge computing style workloads, the Aerial card and software combination makes for a speedy, powerful piece of network infrastructure equipment. This combination supports what Nvidia is calling 5T for 5G (Time Triggered Transmission Technology for Telco), which is the ability to support the SyncE time-sensitive version of Ethernet, enabling low latency edge computing applications. Leveraging the software RAN stacks from partners including Mavenir and Altran, Nvidia’s platform can also support full Massive MIMO 64T/64R-capable radio and antenna systems through a standard eCPRI connection.
At a more practical level, the ability to handle both the software RAN and AI applications in a single box also makes it easier to deploy a server in more environments. That, in turn, makes it well-suited for widely dispersed edge computing applications. Also, for enterprises that may want to deploy private 5G networks, combining both capabilities can potentially reduce costs and power consumption, as well as network management overhead.
Of course, the world of software-defined, O-RAN-based network infrastructure is relatively new, so there’s a lot of learning and experimentation going on. As a result, it was interesting to see that Nvidia also announced a partnership with Google Cloud to create a joint lab focused on creating AI-on-5G based applications. As the telco world starts to migrate away from the traditional closed-box, custom infrastructure boxes that have powered it for the last few decades, it has been embracing the modern container-based software architectures pioneered by the major cloud computing providers. As a result, it isn’t the least bit surprising to see companies like Google Cloud (as well as Amazon’s AWS and Microsoft’s Azure) getting more involved with traditional tech companies like Nvidia in order to jointly create important new offerings for the network infrastructure market. In fact, I expect these types of partnerships to expand quickly and broaden significantly over time. It’s these combinations of companies that are likely going to drive the creation of advanced applications leveraging 5G, AI, and edge computing simultaneously.
The last bit of Nvidia AI-on-5G news centers around its silicon roadmap for the telco market. The next version of the Aerial series cards is expected to include both a next generation GPU architecture chip and a BlueField-3 DPU. Together, Nvidia said the combination should offer three times the performance per watt on vRAN-based workloads than today’s model. Even more importantly, however, BlueField-3 will incorporate sixteen A78-based Arm CPU cores. What this means is that the card could function in a server on its own, without an x86 CPU—in other words, it’s enabling the possibility of Arm-based 5G network infrastructure.  Nvidia did clarify that it will also function like the current card as a plug-in for x86 CPU-based servers, but the standalone option is certainly an interesting development—particularly in light of Nvidia’s desire to purchase Arm. After that, the company plans to integrate both the GPU and DPU on a single chip with further improvements in performance per watt.
Ultimately, what Nvidia is demonstrating by releasing these additional details on its Aerial 5G offerings is that its combination of chip technologies, as well as its software tools, position it well to be a potentially formidable player in the world of 5G network infrastructure. It is still relatively early for software-based O-RAN environments, but it’s clear Nvidia is making a serious and compelling effort to extend the company’s influence even beyond where it stands today.
Disclosure: TECHnalysis Research is a tech industry market research and consulting firm and, like all companies in that field, works with many technology vendors as clients, some of whom may be listed in this article.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 19.16161155700684

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 19.939321517944336

NVDA price the day of article release: 19.980976104736328