Nvidia Introduces 3 New Arm Processors

Apr 12, 2021, 01:57pm EDT

Covering all the announcements at GTC is a challenge. While the conference has become a top AI conference and the launch event for the latest Nvidia GPU platforms like the Ampere platform launched in 2020, the company uses it to discuss other advancements in the company, especially as it expands into new markets like automotive and the data center. While there were plenty of announcements in CEO Jensen Huang’s keynote this year, the biggest news came in the form of new Arm-based processors that not only further expand Nvidia’s presence in the data center and automotive, but also demonstrate Nvidia’s commitment to the Arm architecture and increasing investment in Arm going forward. The new products include a high-performance computing and AI server processor, a new Data Processing Unit (DPU), and a new autonomous vehicle System-on-Chip (SoC).
The first Arm processor is a high-performance server processor called Grace based on Arm Neoverse CPU cores and manufactured using 5nm process technology. The processor sits next to a future-generation Nvidia GPU and is attached to large arrays of LPDDR5x memory on an HGX module. According to the company, the memory subsystem will support greater than 500GB/s memory bandwidth with ECC while providing 10 times more energy efficiency over DDR4. The processor will be connected to other processors and GPUs via Nvidia’s next-generation NVLink interface technology providing greater than 900 GB/s cache coherent links between the CPU and GPU and greater than 600 GB/s from CPU to CPU. According to Nvidia, the Grace module was designed to handle extremely large HPC data sets and AI models and will deliver 10x more performance with the same number of GPUs than today’s state-of-the-art Nvidia DGX-based systems, which run on x86 CPUs. This will result in reducing the training time for 1 trillion parameter neural network models from one month to just three days. At this point, Grace is being targeted toward Nvidia’s DGX SuperPod and other high-end systems, but Tirias Research believes that Nvidia may scale it down to its other platforms, especially the DGX server and workstations. The one caveat is that the Grace platform will not be available until 2023. However, Nvidia already has a major design win for the platform in the Alps CSCS 20 exaflops supercomputer to be built by Hewlett Packard Enterprise.
The second Arm-based solution is a new generation of the company’s DPU dubbed the Bluefield-3. The new data processing, networking processing, and security engine is just better than the previous generation on every measure. The Bluefield-3 has sixteen faster and more powerful Arm cores compared with the eight in Bluefield-2, 400 GB/s Ethernet and NDR InfiniBand bandwidth up from 200 GB/s and DDR-5 memory with 4x the bandwidth. In addition to the new DPU, Nvidia also announced the first full release of the software application framework for GPUs called DOCA. Like CUDA for GPUs, DOCA allows for development of applications on the DPU while providing software compatibility going forward. Nvidia also announced a new AI cybersecurity framework called Morpheus that will offer real-time monitoring and enforcing of data center cyber policies. Because Morpheus will run on the Bluefield DPUs, it is another reason to consider a DPU for every server.
The third chip is the next generation SoC for autonomous vehicles called “Atlan”. This will be a follow-on to the Orin SoC but will more than quadruple the performance at more than 1,000 TOPS (8-bit integer). Atlan will feature new Arm CPU cores, a next-generation GPU, new deep learning and computer vision accelerators, and an integrated Bluefield DPU. The new chipset will also feature an ASIL-D safety island for added security and 400 Gbps of secure Ethernet networking bandwidth. Atlan will sample in 2023 and is expected to be used in vehicles starting in 2025. While architectural details are forthcoming, Nvidia will likely offer scaling options with Atlan using various SoC and GPU configurations as it has done with previous generations. Nvidia is also extending the use of its current generation Orin SoC with a new Hyperion 8 AV platform. The new platform will feature multiple compute boxes; one for AV (including sensor processing), one for AI cockpit features, and one for data recording. For automotive, the company also announced an extension of its partnership with Volvo Cars, as the automaker builds on its currents models that feature Xavier, to include Orin starting with the next-generation XC90.
The other major announcement was the commercial introduction of Omniverse, Nvidia’s collaborative design environment that has been in beta testing since last year. Omniverse is a unique tool built on the Nvidia GPU Cloud (NGC) and Nvidia’s ray tracing technology. The platform allows multiple developers to collaborate in a single environment using multiple design tools simultaneously. Omniverse provide photorealistic rendering in real-time to each tool and each collaborator eliminating the need to transfer files between users or applications. Omniverse can also stream the rendering to other non-Nvidia or non-GPU platforms for viewing. The enterprise version starts at USD$1,800 per creator/year plus USD$25,000/year for an Omniverse Nucleus Server instance for a group up to 25 users and scales according to group size. Nvidia will, however, continue to offer free limited versions to individual artists, developers, and university students.
Also announced were new Omniverse applications in beta testing, including Audio2Face for generation of facial animation based on an audio source, Machinima for animation and visual effects, and iTwin from Bentley for constructing industrial and civil infrastructure digital twins.
Among the plethora of other announcements were the following:


Even with all those announcements, there were still other areas that Nvidia is actively developing solutions for that were not featured in the keynote, including robotics and edge AI applications based on the company’s Jetson family of products. A few years ago, I noted that announcements at GTC marked a change of Nvidia from a GPU company to an end-to-end AI company. While the company continues to invest in developing the most complete suite of AI hardware, software, and tools, the company is becoming much more of a solutions and services provider especially in key areas like transportation and cloud services. As such, it makes sense that Nvidia is investing in developing processors for specialized workloads in addition to workload accelerators.
The author and members of the Tirias Research staff do not hold equity positions in any of the companies mentioned. Tirias Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud. Members of Tirias Research have consulted for Arm, Nvidia, and companies throughout the automotive, semiconductor, and electronic ecosystems.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 14.10794448852539

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 14.363797187805176

NVDA price the day of article release: 15.170762062072754