Cadence Built A Nvidia DGX SuperPOD Digital Twin With Incredible Scale And Accuracy

Sep 09, 2025, 10:13am EDT

In the semiconductor industry, virtually every major chip maker leverages physically accurate digital twins and simulation technologies throughout the design and manufacturing process, to gain invaluable insights into their devices, before a single wafer is prepped at the fab. When building chips, it is essentially a given that simulations and digital twins are used early and often, to ensure optimal performance, power, and area (PPA), but the same can’t be said in other industries. Even if we scale up only to the system level, for example, digital twins have been adopted by only a small fraction of companies. In this day and age of gigawatt AI factories and advanced data centers, however, it’s borderline silly to not leverage digital twins early in the design phase of complex projects. We’re currently on a path to exhausting the power resources in some regions, not to mention other environmental factors, so designing the most efficient facilities in terms of power, area, and cost is paramount. To that end, Cadence just announced the development of a digital twin of Nvidia’s DGX SuperPOD with DGX GB200 Blackwell-based systems, that can scale to gigawatt levels, but with chip-level accuracy. And it’s a potential game changer in my opinion.
Digital twins are wildly beneficial, because they help make products and services better, more quickly, while also minimizing waste. By creating physically accurate virtual copies of a real device or system – i.e. a digital twin — engineers can discover and remedy problems and refine systems early in the design phase, which often leads to more reliable, higher-quality and better performing outcomes. Digital twins can also accelerate time to market. Companies can iterate on their designs in a virtual space, which reduces the time from initial concept to final production.
Digital twins also enhance long-term sustainability, by using fewer physical resources and cutting down on waste and unnecessary iteration, which aligns well with many of today’s green initiatives. Digital twins may smooth operations as well, by highlighting deficiencies in systems and helping identify where they can be improved. By optimizing processes based on digital data and physically accurate models and simulations, businesses can leverage ideal materials and fine-tune layouts to ensure initial prototypes or build-outs perform optimally from the get-go. The bottom line is digital twins are fundamental for delivering products in the most efficient and timely manner and this is of the utmost importance at a time when there’s insatiable demand for AI compute resources, with increasingly shorter time-to-service demands.
Cadence’s Reality Digital Twin Platform, which currently features 14,000+ models from over 750 vendors, gives users the ability to create ultra high-fidelity data center digital twins, with drag and drop simplicity using vendor-approved digital models. Those physically-accurate models in the digital twin of the data center function exactly like their physical counterparts in the real world. By leveraging this technology, engineers can design entire data centers and facilities to exacting power, space, cooling and performance requirements with pinpoint accuracy. This will allow engineers to identify potential failure points and future upgrade scenarios with relative ease, before ground is ever broken. And the digital twin isn’t obsolete once the data center is built. They can also be used to track progress and maintain optimal performance as the data centers evolve throughout their lifecycle.
With all of that in mind, it’s easy to understand why the creation of a digital twin of Nvidia’s DGX SuperPOD with DGX GB200 systems is a key ecosystem enabler to accelerate AI factory buildouts. For anyone building out a facility with Nvidia DGX GB200 SuperPODs, Cadence’s digital twin can help accelerate the design, lower risk and potential cost, and result in better operational efficiency.
In my view, the benefits of this DGX SuperPOD with DGX GB200 systems digital twin can’t be understated. It can be used to accurately simulate an AI factory at massive scale, while also providing insights into how to optimize said AI factory with a myriad of different parameters and under a multitude of conditions, before anything is actually built in the real-world. That’s an invaluable amount of versatility.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 171.63148498535156

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 168.2820281982422

NVDA price the day of article release: 170.7316131591797