NVIDIA Jetson Nano 2GB Brings Machine Learning Power To A Raspberry Pi Price Point

Nov 03, 2020, 01:44pm EST

Development of autonomous machines is an exploding field, as machine learning spreads from the data center and cloud, to edge end-point devices that are becoming far more capable and useful with machine vision and inferencing technologies. Robotics alone has revolutionized manufacturing, warehousing and many other industries. As such, NVIDIA has kept a keen focus on edge AI and ML, offering its Jetson and Jetson Nano small form factor computing solutions that take advantage of the company’s GPU acceleration platforms combined with its CUDA programming model that’s ubiquitous in data center AI applications as well. Historically, NVIDIA’s Jetson developer kit solutions have ranged in price, from the company’s more powerful Jetson Xavier NX platform at $399, to its lower cost Jetson Nano kit at $99. However, more recently, the company decided to lower the barrier to entry even further with the announcement of its Jetson Nano 2GB dev kit.
At just $59 at retailers like Amazon, Jetson Nano brings NVIDIA’s custom hybrid Arm core CPU and Maxwell GPU technologies down to a Raspberry Pi 4 price point that will be that much more accessible to academia, professional developers and hobbyists alike. The Jetson Nano 2GB kit is specifically powered by a quad-core Arm Cortex-A57 CPU complex at 1.43GHz, along with an NVIDIA Maxwell GPU comprised of 128 CUDA cores. As you might guess, Jetson Nano 2GB only has 2GB of LPDDR4 RAM on board versus the standard Nano board that has 4GB. However, the palm-sized platform still has lots of IO options, including one USB 3.0 Type-A, 2 USB 2.0 Type-A, 1 USB 2.0 Micro-B, a 40 GPIO header, 12-pin power/UART header,  4-pin fan header, a Gigabit Ethernet RJ45 jack, full-size HDMI port, and an included 802.11ac wireless USB dongle.  Also on board is a microSD card slot for storage (card not included) and a MIPI CSI-2 connector to attach a camera, to give the Nano 2GB a set of eyes. The kit is setup in a mezzanine-style IO board and SODIMM slot configuration, where the processing engine clips into the IO board with an integrated heat sink.
So those are all the speeds, feeds and goes-in-goes-out specs, but what you can actually do with this tiny chunk of skynet is where things get interesting and downright fun. The Jetson Nano 2GB platform is well-suited for AI and ML beginners that want to start dabbling in the areas of edge inferencing or robotics. NVIDIA’s Jetson developer portal has preconfigured Ubuntu 18.04 Linux desktop images that can be very easily flashed to an SD Card for quick boot-up and bring-up.
From there, NVIDIA hosts a ton of resources and projects on GitHub, including its Hello AI World project that offers a bunch of trained models that can be used for inferencing in a variety of applications, as you can see above. Ben Funk over at HotHardware went so far as to pick up an inexpensive Sony IMX219 camera sensor, plugged it into the Jetson Nano 2GB’s CSI-2 (camera serial interface) port, and within an afternoon had his Jetson recognizing pedestrians and traffic signals on the street. Pretty cool, right?
I got to spend some time with a Jetson Nano 2GB kit as well and, unlike Ben, I’m no developer but I did find it pretty easy to get up and running, even though I’m basically just a copy and paste code hack. However, in my view as tech analyst, NVIDIA sees the market potential of making the Jetson platform accessible and more affordable to a wider swath of users at an aggressive price point. Ultra-small form factor and single board computers like these are very popular for makers from all walks of life, so they’re an excellent vehicle for spreading the influence of machine learning far and wide.
There was a time, back in the day, when NVIDIA went proverbial Johnny Appleseed on the market, enabling developers and academia wherever it could with its CUDA software development platform to accelerate data center and HPC AI workloads on its powerful GPUs. Now the company is making obvious strides to enable more edge applications, and millions of developers working in the space, with new tools to accelerate AI inferencing workloads on its GPU technologies as well.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 12.982937812805176

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 12.541083335876465

NVDA price the day of article release: 12.978449821472168