NVIDIA Raises The Bar On Consumer Graphics Again

Sep 01, 2020, 02:36pm EDT

Nvidia’s CEO Jensen Huang is back in his kitchen “baking” new products. This time it’s the long-awaited Ampere graphics chips for consumer PC graphics. Along with three new graphics board products, he announced new technologies for ray-traced graphics and AI for gamers. He also declared that “the days of just relying on transistor performance scaling is over,” indicating the design relies more on architecture than bleeding edge process shrinks.
The GeForce RTX 30 Series is NVIDIA’s second-generation RTX GPUs and they deliver up to twice the performance and 1.9x the power efficiency over the previous-generation RTX 20 Series GPUs. The improvements come from architectural improvements, memory bandwidth improvements, and a process shrink. All the cards feature PCIe Gen4 interfaces, which can pair nicely with AMD Ryzen desktop CPUs.
The custom Samsung 8N (N for Nvidia) process used in the RTX 30 series does not use the leading edge Extreme UltraViolet (EUV) fabrication technology used in Samsung’s 7nm process. The 8nm process is derived from Samsung’s proven 10nm process technology with better performance and scalability. It is a conservative approach, considering AMD has committed to TSMC’s 7nm process. Nvidia did not reveal die sizes, but that is not something Nvidia typically obsesses over.
The Gamer’s Choice
For the PC gaming market, the big announcement is the GeForce RTX 3080 graphics card at an aggressive $699 and is shipping September 17th. The GeForce RTX 3080 has 29 billion transistors and is designed for gaming at advanced 4K resolution. Advanced video features to support future displays include HDMI 2.1 with enough bandwidth for single cable connection to 8K HDR TVs. RTX 30 series also is the first discrete GPU to support AV1 Decode to be able to watch up to 8K HDR internet video with 50% less bandwidth required.
The new RTX 3080 brings many innovations in consumer graphics card design. In addition to more tensor and CUDA cores, significant attention was paid to the memory performance to keep pace with 4K gaming. High-performance graphics is often memory bandwidth constrained, especially at higher screen resolutions. To overcome those bottlenecks Nvidia increased memory bandwidth with the fastest graphics memory by working closely with Micron. The new GDDR6X memory uses advanced PAM4 signaling running at 19Gbps to double the bandwidth of regular GDDR6 memory. The RTX 3080 supports 10GB of GDDRX6 memory.
To avoid the latency of CPU-controller storage interface, the new Nvidia RTX IO enables the GPU to load and decompress game asset from PCIe Gen4 SSD storage directly. RTX IO works in conjunction with Microsoft’s new forthcoming DirectStorage API for Windows. The new storage system will improve gaming frame rates and enabling near instantaneous game loading.
The board design is also an innovative flow-through design with Dual Axial fans that are at opposite sides of the board and facing opposite directions to pull cool air over the card and out the different exhausts. The new cooling system is twice as efficient and quieter as previous coolers. Note that all this performance does require up to 320W of power for the RTX3080.
The more affordable (and lower power) RTX option will be the GeForce RTX 3070 with 8GB of GDDR6 memory with prices starting at $499, shipping in October. It requires only 220W peak power.
The Beast
There was one more GeForce card in Jensen Huang’s oven – the RTX 3090, which he touted as the world’s first GPU able to play AAA games at 60 fps in 8K resolution. This card replaces the Titan card from previous generations. The card is larger than the RTX 3080 and consumes up to 350W of power. The RTX 3090 requires a triple slot to support the new dual-axial, flow-through design cooling solution that keeps the card about 30°C cooler than the Titan card. The card also has 24GB of memory. This card is designed for advanced simulations and creative workloads, not every day gaming card. And it’s priced for that audience at $1499. It will ship September 24th to the fortunate that can afford it.
Making Gaming Better And Keeping Creators Busy
Nvidia also released a bundle of new technologies for video gaming, including new content creation tools. Many gamers are now broadcasting their games on sites such as Amazon’s Twitch. Nvidia uses the extra compute capability of the GPU for additional game streaming capabilities and to make these video streaming setups look more professional. The new Nvidia Broadcast software uses the machine learning capabilities to reduce background audio noise, perform webcam face tracking, and can blur video backgrounds for a more professional look. It will be available for all GeForce RTX cards in September.
For better gaming, the company has improved its G-Sync monitor system with Nvidia Reflex technology, which lowers display latency and support for 360Hz refresh rates. These G-Sync Esports displays with Reflex a improve responsiveness and increase aiming precision, potentially giving them a competitive edge.
For the ultimate home movie making, there’s Nvidia Omniverse Machinima tool chain to create cinematic animated movies using gaming engines. The software beta will be available in October.
New Ray Tracing Content
The new Ampere architecture improves ray tracing performance with support for twice the rays per vertex. But all that ray tracing capability needs content. One of the games you will be able to play ray-traced graphics with the latest GeForce RTX cards will be on Fortnite.
While not known for stressing graphic cards to create extreme realism, Fortnite is a fast-paced game where a little eye candy is welcome. The game adds four ray-traced features including ray-traced reflections that simulate the way light reflects on glossy and metal surfaces, including mirror surfaces like window glass and also rougher surfaces like brushed metal. The game will also support ray-traced shadows, global illumination and ambient occlusion. The goal is to bring a new level of detail and realism to Fortnite’s Battle Royale, Creative and Save the World modes without a performance penalty. Fortnite will also support Nvidia Reflex.
There will be a new Fortnite map called RTX Treasure Run, that will highlight the new ray tracing capabilities.
The popular Call of Duty franchise has a new Black Ops Cold War game coming in November that promises impressive ray-traced graphics.
Keeping Ahead of the Competition
While we wait for AMD’s 7nm “Big Navi” graphic cards later this year and Intel’s Xe HPG cards in 2021, Nvidia is pushing as hard as ever to new graphics heights and doubling down on more ray tracing capabilities for a more immersive gaming experience. The bar is set incredibly high for the competition.
See the Nvidia blog for a summary of all the announcements and additional content links.
The author and members of the TIRIAS Research staff do not hold equity positions in any of the companies mentioned. TIRIAS Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud. Members of the TIRIAS Research team are tracking all the developments in AI and enterprise computing technology and have consulted for Nvidia and other companies focused on PCs, Graphics, AI and enterprise computing solutions.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 12.584671020507812

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 13.328346252441406

NVDA price the day of article release: 13.777426719665527