NVIDIA And Mercedes-Benz Join Forces In An Autonomous Car Power Play

Jun 23, 2020, 01:30pm EDT

The race for autonomous driving is on and today NVIDIA and Mercedes-Benz are announcing an agreement to advance the entire fleet of the German Automaker’s premium vehicles, with AI-enabled technology powered by NVIDIA’s autonomous vehicle compute platforms. Specifically, Mercedes-Benz will be employing NVIDIA’s new DRIVE platform technologies as standard equipment in all vehicles, starting in 2024. This is clearly a huge design win for NVIDIA, as well as a key strategic move for Mercedes-Benz, and it comes with upgradeability features that will be critical to both the evolution of the technology itself, but also new business models that it will help enable as well.
NVIDIA and Mercedes are underscoring that this is a “software-defined” computing architecture for automated driving. Though Tesla has had the ability to provide new features and capabilities via over-the-air updates to its customers, NVIDIA and Mercedes are emphasizing that this will be a major advantage of the platform, with the  ability to configure and purchase features and capabilities for the system, both at time of purchase and later down the road, as a driver’s needs might change.
“We are excited to work with Mercedes-Benz. It’s the perfect partner for us given its long record of innovation and our strong technical relationship. It’s clear from our extensive discussions with Ola and his team that we share a common vision of the automobile of the future. Together, we’re going to revolutionize the car ownership experience, making the vehicle software programmable and continuously upgradeable via over-the-air updates. Every future Mercedes-Benz with the NVIDIA DRIVE system will come with a team of expert AI and software engineers continuously developing, refining and enhancing the car over its lifetime,” noted Jensen Huang, founder and CEO of NVIDIA.
NVIDIA is also touting the ability to automate driving of regular routes from address to address, as well as SAE level 3 automation. Level 3 driving takes over all control functions of the car in certain areas and conditions, with vehicles moving in the same direction and no pedestrians, as with highway driving, for example. Drivers are still required to be in the vehicle with level 3 automation, though Mercedes has previously pioneered full driverless level 4 autonomy for parking, which will also be enabled on the new NVIDIA platform. The technology Mercedes will be employing is based on NVIDIA’s next-generation DRIVE platform and its new Orin system-on-chip architecture with Ampere GPU-accelerated, AI-powered automation. NVIDIA will also be providing not only a full software stack but also cloud data center GPU compute power as training and inference machine learning infrastructure as well.
NVIDIA and Mercedes-Benz also noted that NVIDIA’s new technologies will afford Mercedes the ability to build cars with a single automation platform, reducing the number of on-board computers for controlling things like sensors, cameras and infotainment systems, etc. For NVIDIA, this is a huge design win opportunity with one of the top mainstream premium vehicle brands that moves over 2.3 million vehicles a year.  If  we do the math, the numbers will mean a massive uptick in NVIDIA’s Automotive business.
For Mercedes-Benz it’s also a key partnership that will allow the company to accelerate its efforts to bring autonomous vehicles to market, without having to reinvent the wheel, so to speak, designing an automation platform themselves. In short, NVIDIA’s new DRIVE platform will kick Mercedes-Benz into a much-needed higher gear in the race for autonomous driving, giving chase to Tesla and many others.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 9.186189651489258

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 9.493873596191406

NVDA price the day of article release: 9.417387962341309