NVIDIA Announces Ampere - The Most Exciting GPU Architecture For Modern AI

May 17, 2020, 10:45am EDT

The GPU Technology Conference is the most exciting event for the AI and ML ecosystem. From researchers in academia to product managers at hyperscale cloud companies to IoT builders and makers, this conference has something relevant for each of them.
As an AIoT enthusiast and a maker, I eagerly look forward to GTC. Due to the current COVID-19 situation, I was a bit disappointed to see the event turning into a virtual conference. But the keynote delivered by Jensen Huang, the CEO of NVIDIA made me forget that it was a virtual event. Jensen’s keynote was set in the kitchen of his California home which became the center stage for the game-changing technologies debuted at GTC.
I love Jensen’s passion and conviction for technology. He makes a strong and compelling pitch for the new hardware and software products from NVIDIA. GTC 2020 was no different. Jensen was at his best when he unveiled the next-generation GPU technology from NVIDIA - Ampere.
Ampere is the successor to Volta, the GPU architecture that powers a variety of AI accelerators in the data center and the cloud. Ampere becomes the unified and consistent GPU technology platform from the edge to the cloud. It becomes the cornerstone of NVIDIA’s AI strategy and product portfolio.
Let’s take a closer look at NVIDIA Ampere and the related products.
Ampere features the third generation of Tensor Core - a chip that’s purpose-built for accelerating AI. Tensor Core was first introduced in NVIDIA Volta architecture in 2017 which dramatically changed the time it took to train complex deep learning models. Ampere supports new data types including Tensor Float (TF32) and Floating Point 64 (FP64) that make it possible to train models with increased precision.
When training complex deep learning models based on images and videos, it’s a common practice to convert the data type to a lower bit data type such as FP16 to speed up the process. But the side effect of this is the loss of precision. With Ampere, NVIDIA makes it possible to use the native data type to train models without any tradeoff between speed and precision. Using a technique called Automatic Mixed Precision, researchers can gain an additional 2X performance by mixing and matching FP32 and FP16 by adding just a couple of lines of code.
It’s a common practice to apply quantization - a process to optimize the fully trained model for inference by replacing higher bit data type such as FP32 and FP16 with INT8 and INT4. The quantization technique speeds up the forward propagation of deep learning neural networks during inference. Ampere also supports data types such as bfloat16, INT8 and INT4 typically used for inference. The ability to accelerate both training and inference of deep learning models makes Ampere the most versatile GPU in the industry.
The Ampere architecture boasts of the fastest memory with 1.6 terabytes per second (TB/sec) bandwidth, which is a 67 percent increase over Volta. It also comes with more on-chip memory, including a 40 megabyte (MB) level 2 cache which is 7X larger than the previous generation. The enhanced memory architecture maximizes the compute performance of VMs in IaaS and servers in the data center.
Ampere also makes it possible to slice a GPU into multiple virtual GPU instances. This concept is known as Multi-Instance GPU (MIG) that expands the performance and value of each Tensor Core GPU. MIG can partition the A100 GPU into as many as seven instances, each fully isolated with their own high-bandwidth memory, cache, and compute cores. MIG enables cloud providers such as AWS, Azure, and GCP to offer GPU instances in multi-tenant, virtualized environments without compromising on performance.
Ampere comes with the next generation of NVLink, the technology that connects multiple GPUs for parallel computing. The third generation of NVIDIA NVLink built for Ampere doubles the GPU-to-GPU direct bandwidth to 600 gigabytes per second (GB/s), almost 10X higher than PCIe Gen4. To enable all the Ampere-based GPUs connected to the same server to talk to each other, NVIDIA has updated NVSwitch that delivers a whopping 9.6 TB/s total aggregate bandwidth. The second-generation NVSwitch for Ampere can connect up to 16 GPUs.
The Ampere architecture is built to deal with structural sparsity of deep learning models without losing accuracy. Sparsity is a technique that carefully omits unneeded weights and parameters of a neural network without compromising on the accuracy. The NVIDIA Ampere architecture takes advantage of the prevalence of small values in neural networks in a way that benefits the widest possible swath of AI applications. Specifically, it defines a method for training a neural network with half its weights removed, or what’s known as 50 percent sparsity.
The A100 GPU is the first commercially available AI accelerator based on the Ampere architecture. It’s the workhorse of the next-generation products including DGX, HGX and EGX. A100 will have massive adoption due to its unified support for training and inference.
DGX, the flagship appliance from NVIDIA is refreshed for A100. It’s a one-stop-shop for running AI workloads in training and inference modes. NVIDIA calls the DGX A100 as the universal system for all AI infrastructure, from analytics to training to inference. Enterprises can run accelerated ETL jobs based on RAPIDS while using TensorFlow and PyTorch for training models. They can host models for inference by taking advantage of TensorRT and MIG. One hardware and software platform for data preparation, training and inference is a huge benefit for data scientists, ML engineers, and DevOps teams in an enterprise.
NVIDIA is also offering a super computer based on DGX A100, the DGX Pod, which boasts of a  64 node cluster of DGX A100 machines. This is undoubtedly the world’s most powerful AI computer.
If DGX A100 is targeted towards enterprises, the HGX A100 is for webscale and hyperscale infrastructure providers. It comes with three configurations - 4-GPU, 8-GPU and 16-GPU.
NVIDIA has partnered with Alibaba, Amazon, Baidu, Google, Microsoft, Oracle, and Tencent to bring A100 to the public cloud. Expect a new family of VMs and instances for AI from these cloud providers.
While DGX and HGX family of products target enterprises and hyperscale providers, EGX A100 aims to bring the power of the A100 accelerator to the edge. Based on Kubernetes and Cloud-native computing, EGX delivers unmatched performance at the edge.
Customers can deploy a wide range of NVIDIA AI accelerators at the edge starting with the Jetson family to the T4 GPUs to an integrated EGX A100. All these platforms are capable of running the containers available at the NVIDIA GPU Cloud (NGC) and take advantage of the latest software stack based on cuDNN and TensorRT for inference.
For users who want to experience A100 in a pay-as-you go model, wait for the cloud providers to launch a new GPU-based family of VMs. Enterprises that can afford the hefty price of DGX A100 can invest in one.
NVIDIA A100 AI accelerator based on the Ampere architecture truly revolutionizes AI workloads in the cloud, enterprise data center and at the edge.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 7.772026538848877

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 7.999136924743652

NVDA price the day of article release: 8.45759105682373