Nvidia’s RTX Ray Tracing Brings Minecraft To Life

Apr 14, 2020, 03:26pm EDT

As I reported in my previous post (Immersive Realism Comes To Minecraft Through Ray Tracing From Nvidia), the addition of Nvidia’s RTX graphics ray tracing technology transformed the cartoon-like environment of Minecraft to a true virtual environment. The announcement of Minecraft’s adoption of ray tracing was announced back in August, but the first beta update of the platform will finally be available on Thursday, April 16, 2020, with additional capabilities.
You may be wondering why this is so exciting. If you ask the four teenagers currently taking online classes and social distancing in my house, they will tell you that it is because “you can do anything in Minecraft.” According to Damian McGregor, “Minecraft is like digital Legos with a 3D printer – you can not only play and build anything, you can also create your own blocks.” Minecraft is much more than a game; it is a virtual environment that seems to have no boundaries. People can connect from anywhere and create a virtual world that not only mimics the real world but often extends its boundaries. The organization Reporters Without Borders has created a library of content to make it available to people that would normally not have access due to censorship. And in the midst of the COVID-19 outbreak, students at colleges, such as Berklee College of Music and Boston University, are taking to Minecraft to create their own virtual campuses and even planning virtual graduation ceremonies. While already impressive, these virtual worlds are about to get a huge boost.
With the beta version supporting ray tracing, Minecrafters can now create more realistic environments. The first noticeable difference is the use of light and how it fills environments and reflects, refracts, and scatters through and off surfaces just like natural light, but it doesn’t stop there. There are additional features to enhance the blocks beyond just the color and transparency (opacity), including changing or adding metallic characteristics, illumination (referred to as emissive), height (referred to as normal), and texture (referred to as roughness). The illumination or emissive feature is particularly impressive, allowing everything from water to structures to be illuminated.
Also added is the ability to leverage the processing power of the tensor cores on the RTX GPUs through Nvidia’s DLSS2 (Deep Learning Super Sampling), which allows up to a 2x performance increase by rendering at a lower resolution (i.e. 1080p), then using AI to upscale the image to full native resolution (i.e. 4K)—all while delivering the image quality of the full native resolution.
To inspire creators, Nvidia is also releasing six free RTX environments, or maps as they refer to them, and tools that include textures, HD resources, a materials guide, and a Java to Bedrock conversion guide to assist Minecraft developers. You can view a brief video of the new technology on YouTube.
To use these new features, users will need a PC with Nvidia RTX graphics. The desktop RTX card starts around $299 and mobile PCs with discrete RTX graphics start around $999. My evaluators will be using two desktop PCs featuring AMD Threadripper CPUs and RTX 2070 Super and RTX 2060 Super GPUs.
For the estimated 480 million people already enjoying Minecraft (according to the number of accounts), the ray tracing technology enhances the experience. But, to non-Minecrafters, the new images are mesmerizing and sure to draw in new players and creators. Look for more updates on this topic as I and my four teenagers/evaluators get early access to start playing and creating with the new Minecraft.
The author and members of the Tirias Research staff do not hold equity positions in any of the companies mentioned. Tirias Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud. Members of the Tirias Research team have consulted for AMD, Nvidia, and other technology, software, and service companies in the gaming segment.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 6.64768648147583

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 6.719902515411377

NVDA price the day of article release: 7.071024894714356