NVIDIA GeForce NOW PC Cloud Gaming Goes Live With A Free Service Tier

Feb 04, 2020, 01:33pm EST

The Cloud Gaming services battle is shaping-up to be big business across the globe in 2020, with primary competitors like Google Stadia, Microsoft xCloud, and NVIDIA with GeForce NOW ramping up their respective services and technologies. In October of last year, NVIDIA and its partners rolled out live, open services for Russia and the platform has been up and running in Korea for a while as well. Only closed beta access was available in the U.S. and Europe, however, as NVIDIA continued to build-up and optimize its infrastructure to improve the experience until it was ready for prime time.
That time is now, as the gaming and graphics powerhouse is making GeForce NOW available to everyone. NVIDIA itself will be hosting services in its commissioned data centers for the Western Europe and North America regions, with GFNA (GeForce NOW Alliance) infrastructure partners supporting Eastern Europe and Asia.
NVIDIA’s GeForce NOW service has some key advantages over most other Cloud Gaming solutions. For one, NVIDIA being so tightly coupled to the hardware and software development throughout the years has allowed them to tweak and tune the service for optimal performance and a quality user experience. Graphics and gaming are among NVIDIA’s core competencies, and it has significant experience in HPC and the Data Center as well. Marry of that experience together and GeForce NOW feels like a polished and mature product right out of the gate.
Of course, NVIDIA has kept the service in the beta phase for an extended period to ensure a quality user experience. NVIDIA claims that 300,000 beta testers have streamed more than 70 million hours of gameplay in 30 countries throughout North America and Europe already. That level of commitment and qualification is paramount and should help mitigate any potential growing pains as participation in GeForce NOW increases. Competitors in the space, even large ones like Google, haven’t had the experience of such a long ramp, with feedback from hardcore gamers throughout.
Another key advantage to GeForce NOW is its library and the relationships NVIDIA has cultivated with game developers. NVIDIA makes it clear in a blog post that just went live on the company website where it says, “With GeForce NOW, you can keep playing the games you already own and continue building libraries from the same stores you already use every day. That’s what it means to be an open platform. If you buy it, you own it. If you already own it, play it. Your purchases are always yours.” Some gamers have voiced displeasure with the pricing and fees associated with other services to play games they may already own – this shouldn’t be an issue for NVIDIA. At the moment, there are more than 30 free-to-play games on the service, though in total there are hundreds of games available from more than 50 publishers that are available for instant play (if already own them). All the games are patched automatically in the cloud as well, so there’s no need for gamers to maintain the library moving forward. There are also more than 1,000 games that can be played through single-session installs according to NVIDIA.
There are currently two service tiers available for GeForce NOW, a free tier and a paid tier. Anyone already in the beta program has automatically been enrolled in the free tier, which provides one-hour sessions with standard access to GeForce NOW servers. Gamers aren’t limited to the number of sessions they can play, but the session length is limited to one hour per instance, at which point they’ll have to re-enter the queue to pick up where they left off. A paid “Founders” tier is currently available for $4.99 per month (for the remainder of 2020), which offers no wait times and a longer session-length (up to 6 hours). Paid Founders Tier users get priority access to GeForce NOW servers ahead of free members and will have exclusive access to RTX-enabled content on the service as well.
NVIDIA is currently offering the first three months of Founders tier memberships for free (for a limited time), followed by the discounted rate for the remainder of the year. The non-discounted rate, which will presumably kick-in at some point in 2021, hasn’t been disclosed just yet.
NVIDIA’s GeForce NOW is available on a variety of platforms, including the PC and Mac, NVIDIA’s own SHIELD TV devices, and Android-based mobile devices.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 6.11759090423584

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 5.98120641708374

NVDA price the day of article release: 6.150441646575928