Nvidia Announces New Orin Auto AI Processor

Dec 18, 2019, 11:43am EST

At the company’s GPU Technology Conference (GTC) in China, Nvidia announced the new Orin AI processor or system-on-chip (SoC). Drive AGX Orin is the next generation to the Drive Xavier SoC currently in use by many auto OEMs and tier one automotive equipment suppliers. While dubbed a “robotics” processor, the key target application is autonomous cars. Orin demonstrates continued enhancement in SoC architecture to improve both performance and power efficiency, as well as Nvidia’s continued commitment to the evolving automotive segment.
While some of the details are still under wraps, the initial specs for Orin are impressive. Orin is a family of products that can scale from 15W and 36 int8 trillions of operations per second (TOPS) to 750W and 2,000 TOPS when using two Orin SoCs paired with two discrete GPUs. A single Orin SoC can boast up to 200 TOPS at under 70W using 12 Hercules ARM64 CPU cores, a CUDA tensor core GPU and Deep Learning Accelerator (DLA) architecture, and 200 GB/s of memory bandwidth. In all, Orin has 7x the performance of Xavier with 3x the performance/watt efficiency. Orin has 17 billion transistors but is smaller than Xavier which makes us believe that it is likely on TSMC’s 7nm process node, as opposed to the 12nm process used for Xavier, but the company has not confirmed which process node is being used.
Even with a move to a more advanced process node, Orin demonstrates a huge leap in performance as a result of architecture enhancements. According to Nvidia, everything on Orin is new relative to Xavier. Continued leaps in performance and efficiency are required to continue scaling the technology while reducing power and cost for future autonomous vehicles.
Nvidia noted that Xavier is targeted to autonomous platforms for production in 2020 and Orin is targeted for platforms for production starting in 2022. Orin will be offered in various configurations and with discrete GPUs to be able to scale from SAE (autonomous) level 2 systems through level 5. Orin is software compatible with Xavier offering an easy upgrade path for current customers. Orin will also be ISO26262 and ASIL-D certified for auto applications.
In addition to the Drive AGX Orin announcement, Nvidia also announced access to the company’s pre-trained models to Drive partners. The new program is called Drive Transfer Learning. By sharing its models, partners and customers can easily customize the models for specific platforms based on additional data. Additionally, it allows for the sharing of information without the sharing of data. Nvidia hopes this will also encourage other federated learning between auto partners. Nvidia is also one of the founding members of the Autonomous Vehicle Computing Consortium (AVCC), which is working to establish standards for autonomous vehicles.
These announcements are the first of many technology announcements related to autonomous vehicles prior to and during CES, now the leading industry showcase for automotive technology. Look for more announcements and coverage from TIRIAS Research relative to AI and autonomous vehicle technology leading up to and through CES.
Correction: Nvidia and the Autonomous Vehicle Computing Consortium (AVCC) would like to note that Nvidia was one of the “initial members” of the AVCC. The term “founders” is being reserved for a future designation.
The author and members of the TIRIAS Research staff do not hold equity positions in any of the companies mentioned. TIRIAS Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud. Members of the TIRIAS Research team have consulted for Nvidia and other technology vendors targeting autonomous vehicles.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 5.574545383453369

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 5.681562423706055

NVDA price the day of article release: 5.711923599243164