NVIDIA GeForce NOW Goes Live In Russia, What It Means For Cloud Gaming

Oct 03, 2019, 05:32pm EDT

Back in March of this year, at its GPU Technology Conference (GTC), NVIDIA announced the GeForce NOW Alliance. The GeForce NOW Alliance is essentially a group of partners leveraging NVIDIA RTX Servers and the company’s cloud gaming software platform to offer customized, localized cloud gaming services from data centers in various regions across the globe. To date, LG U+ has introduced a GeForce NOW trial in Korea, in association with a mobile subscription plan, and Softbank recently kicked-off pre-registrations in Japan for free beta that is slated to launch this winter. And today at the IgroMir Expo, a large video gaming event currently underway in Moscow, SAFMAR Group introduced the GeForce NOW service in Russia.
Where NVIDIA has been currently offering GeForce NOW as a free beta program across its SHIELD devices, Windows, and Mac systems in North America and Western EU, the SAFMAR Group has announced a live (non-beta) paid service launching under the GFN.ru brand. All GeForce NOW Alliance partners are encouraged to bring the service to market to meet local needs. That means, there are some important nuances with the market dynamics involved here, that gamers around the world should take note of.
As it stands today, most of the cloud gaming services we have available here in the states are not offered in Russia, which may be part of the SAFMAR Group’s motivation to launch its GeForce NOW service. GFN.ru will leverage Russian digital service provider Rostelecom’s high-speed data network and Russia’s largest consumer electronics chain, M.Video, will be offering subscriptions in-stores and online, with pricing plans starting at $15 a month (equivalent in USD).
The first take-away here is that, generally speaking, for regions where GeForce NOW is officially “live” (rather than beta), the service itself is likely getting close to being ready for prime time. That said, NVIDIA is underscoring that GeForce NOW Alliance members (versus regions where the service is operated by NVIDIA itself) are able to formulate their own plans, pricing, promotions and supported game libraries for their specific regions. And of course, what works in one region of the world may not in another. GeForce NOW services introduced by alliance members around the world won’t necessarily be identical to the GeForce NOW service offered by NVIDIA, though they should be similar. There are many variables at play, and delivering a product in a single, targeted market like Russia is very different than in North America and Western Europe, which are much more diverse with additional layers of complexity in terms of go-to-market strategies and even the competitive environment, versus services like Google Stadia and Microsoft xCloud.
Not to mention, even the cost of bandwidth and carrier models are quite different in North America and the EU than they are in Russia. So don’t put too much stock in the $15/month price plan that Russia has rolled out, as being what North American and Western European gamers will eventually be offered as well.
For now, today’s announcement means NVIDIA and its GeForce NOW Alliance partners are expanding cloud gaming’s reach to more gamers in more regions of the world. Just keep in mind that what the SAFMAR Group is offering with GFN.ru won’t necessarily be representative of what other partners, or NVIDIA themselves, will launch when their respective beta periods end and the service goes officially live. The GeForce NOW cloud gaming experience will be similar, as well as its breadth of game titles, but service plan costs, partnerships and perhaps even bundling strategies are still to be determined.
–––
Dave Altavilla serves as Principal Analyst for HotTech Vision And Analysis. HotTech, like all technology analyst firms, provides paid services, research and consulting to many semiconductor manufacturers and system OEMs. Some of the companies in this article may be clients of the firm.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 4.328968048095703

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 4.303353786468506

NVDA price the day of article release: 4.509021759033203