Immersive Realism Comes To Minecraft Through Ray Tracing From NVIDIA

Aug 19, 2019, 08:48am EDT

After further clarification from Nvidia, the following article has been updated to reflect that the announcement was of three new game titles, not nine. This brings the total number of games supporting ray tracing to nine. Also, the first introduction of Minecraft was in 2009, but the first official release from Mojang was in 2011.
At Gamescom in Cologne, Germany, Nvidia announced that there are now nine gaming titles, three new titles, using ray tracing technology. While the rollout of new games supporting ray tracing is expected over the next few years as gaming vendors integrate the technology into their new products, there was one unexpected announcement – Minecraft will be only the second game, after Quake II, to support full-frame ray tracing. This should be a boost for both NVIDIA and its ray tracing technology used in the GeForce RTX GPU cards. For Minecraft, this will transform the game from a cartoon-like environment to the true virtual environment that the Mojang developers (now part of Microsoft) and gamers have imagined since its introduction in 2009.
In a world filled with first-person action games, Minecraft remains a standout as one of the most unique games ever developed. It has been described as the digital Legos for the current generation. It is a virtual environment that promotes creativity as much as playing games. Commonly referred to as a sandbox game, Minecraft players are encouraged to develop both virtual environments as well as modifications or mods to the platforms. As a result, the platform is constantly changing for the better and typically adopting new technology, such as Virtual Reality (VR). Minecraft is so popular that it is estimated to have over 176 million players worldwide placing it in at least the top ten most popular video games and top three of the subscription-based video games. But because of the creative experience of Minecraft, it is much more than a video game to many of its players. Minecraft, for the lack of a better way to describe the experience, is addictive, in a good way, when you begin exploring all the creative aspects of it. Even with VR, however, it has lacked a certain real-world experience, but that is about to change.
Although the basis of Minecraft remains the blocks, the addition of ray tracing gives it a feeling of a real environment, with realistic shadows and lighting effects. The realistic light dimensions enhance all the depth, dimensions, and textures of the environment. When I introduced my 14- and 17-year-old Minecraft experts (my sons Caiden and Damian McGregor) to the enhancements, the reaction was one of the most positive I have seen for a game or technology that I can remember over the past few years. Damian, an ASU engineering student, has not played Minecraft in recent history, but this change has sparked his interest in returning to Minecraft. He described it as “Minecraft reaching puberty” or “finally growing up.” Caiden, the just starting college student says, “this changes everything.” He was excited about all the changes this will bring. And, both boys feel that ray tracing combined with VR is likely to bring many people back to the Minecraft world.
While the use of ray tracing may have been subtle for some games, such as enhancements in the lighting or reflections, the changes for Minecraft are huge because it was so basic looking before. Ray tracing brings the realism to Minecraft that many people have been trying to do with mods and texture packs for years. Ray tracing will require more computation by the GPU, but with the dedicated RT cores integrated into the GeForce RTX GPUs, there is no impact on the overall performance of the card. In addition, Minecraft has never been a performance hog on GPUs. So, if anything, Minecraft will be using more of the graphics horsepower that is available to it.
One of the challenges of ray tracing has been evaluating its viability. Ray tracing is a technology that can change everything from games to movies to engineering rendering. However, so was stereoscopic 3D, which has had limited success. If you build the technology, will the applications follow? With GeForce RTX cards now selling at more mainstream video card price points and more gaming titles adopting the technology, it appears destined to become a must have technology over the next few years and will be a standard in any graphics-intensive application in the future. This is good news for NVIDIA, which has invested a great deal in the development of the technology. For applications like Minecraft that can effectively leverage the technology, this could be a differentiator. Although Minecraft has always adopted new technologies to enhance the platform, it was a bit of a surprise to see it as the second game to use all the benefits of ray tracing. However, seeing is believing and the benefits to Minecraft are incredible.
The other games announcing support for GeFore RTX ray tracing include Bloodlines 2, Call of Duty Warfare, Control, Cyberpunk, Dying Light 2, Synced Off Planet, Watch Dogs Legion, and Wolfenstein.
The author and members of the TIRIAS Research staff do not hold equity positions in any of the companies mentioned. TIRIAS Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud. Members of the TIRIAS Research team have consulted for both major GPU vendors, AMD and NVIDIA, and for companies throughout the gaming and consumer electronics ecosystem.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 3.728419542312622

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 3.96419358253479

NVDA price the day of article release: 4.242950916290283