Nvidia Offers A Turnkey Supercomputer -- The DGX SuperPod

Jun 19, 2019, 01:31am EDT

For a car guy, nothing is more thrilling than seeing the excitement and innovation in the automotive industry. It has become the focal point for everything from semiconductors to sensors, connectivity, simulation, and artificial intelligence (AI). This push for innovation has created a marriage between the high-tech industry and the automotive industry. And despite some uneasiness to the new entrants, the relationships are developing some amazing solutions. As the pioneer in both AI and autonomous control, Nvidia has continued to push the innovation boundaries for both the car and development platforms. However, Nvidia just took that innovation to a new level with a turnkey data center called the DGX SuperPod that ranks as number 22 on the global list of global supercomputers.
Announced at the ISC (formerly known as the International Supercomputing Conference) in Frankfurt, Germany, the DGX SuperPod is a data center server solution that includes 96 DGX-2H systems interconnected using a Mellanox (a company Nvidia is currently acquiring) network fabric. To put that into perspective, each fully configured DGX-2H has dual Intel Xeon CPUs, 16 Nvidia Tesla V100 GPUs, 1.5 TB of system memory, 512 GB of HBM2 GPU memory, and 30 TBs of storage. So, a fully configured DGX SuperPod is 192 CPUs, 1536 GPUs, 144 TBs of system memory, 1.4 TBs of GPU memory, and 2.88PBs (that’s petabytes – 1000 terabytes) of storage. And, it’s relatively affordable. Each DGX-2 system sells for only $399,000, which puts the DGX SuperPod in the $35 million to $40 million range assuming some price break for the scale of the system. It can be scaled down to meet the needs of the customer. I say relatively affordable because many of the world’s supercomputers are in the $100s of millions and require extensive integration support. According to Nvidia, the first DGX SuperPod was assembled in just three weeks. The platform is being targeted towards automotive OEMs and equipment manufacturers, as well as cloud providers that could offer the platform as a service. No customers have been announced yet.
The SuperPod provides yet another investment by Nvidia into platforms for the automotive ecosystem. Nvidia already provides the Drive AGX platform for in the vehicle, the DGX platform for AI training, the Drive Constellation platform for vehicle simulation and testing, and now a turn-key data center with the DGX SuperPod. Nvidia also works closely with OEMs to develop platforms, including companies like Audi, BMW, Mercedes, and the recently announced Volvo Group for industrial applications.
For some high-tech companies, venturing into automotive is a side business to increase their potential market using existing products and technologies. For others, like Nvidia, it is a huge investment seen as a completely new business. While high volumes of autonomous vehicles may still be years away, for companies like Nvidia, the opportunity lies not only in the production of autonomous vehicles but also the development. In fact, only the Drive AGX solution relies on the production of vehicles for a strong return on investment (ROI). In addition, while the DGX-2H and DGX SuperPod are aimed at the automotive segment they are well suited for many forms of AI, autonomous control, and other applications.
For many of the traditional OEMs and suppliers in the automotive industry, embracing the rapid pace of innovation is challenging but it shows no signs of slowing. Much like how the internet changed many traditional markets and business models, AI and autonomous control are changing the automotive industry. It may be too early to determine what the industry will look like in a decade or two, but it will change how society views and uses transportation forever.
The author and members of the TIRIAS Research staff do not hold equity positions in any of the companies mentioned. TIRIAS Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud. Members of the TIRIAS Research team have consulted for Nvidia and many other companies focused on developing solutions for autonomous vehicles.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 3.683450222015381

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 3.60320258140564

NVDA price the day of article release: 3.798232078552246