Nvidia Creates A 'Safety Force Field' To Boost Trust In Self-Driving Vehicles

Mar 18, 2019, 07:00pm EDT

Outside of the many technical challenges that still face developers of automated driving systems, the industry must also convince people to actually trust that the technology will work more reliably and safely than human drivers. One approach to bridging the trust gap is adding more software running in parallel to the main automated driving stack to specifically do a final sanity check to try to make sure the system doesn’t cause a crash. Back in 2017, Mobileye announced their approach to the problem with the responsibility sensitive safety (RSS) model and now Nvidia is adding the AV Safety Force Field (SFF).
In concept, the Safety Force Field is similar to RSS, but it differs in execution. As a refresher, a basic automated driving stack consists of perception (processing the sensor signals to classify what is around the car), prediction (what those other road users are going to do next) and path planning and control (where the car should go next).
Systems like RSS and SFF are intended to take the information from the sensors about the other road users around the vehicle and apply a mathematically rigorous formula to any control decisions that are made in order to prevent a collision. The primary control stack can take into account a wide range of parameters such as smoothness, comfort, efficiency and obeying the rules of the road. SFF has a more constrained set of priorities, don’t cause a crash and if it's unavoidable due to other road user’s decisions, mitigate the unsafe condition.
SFF performs frame-by-frame physics calculations directly on the sensor data and factors in both steering and braking constraints. By looking at both lateral and longitudinal control, the system can determine if it would be better and safer to make an evasive maneuver or just slam on the brakes. Since this system operates independently of the main AV control stack, it provides a degree of redundancy in case something goes wrong in the other software path as well diversity so that any problems don’t impact both systems.
Nvidia has been testing SFF extensively in both test vehicles and on its simulation platform. The Drive Constellation simulation platform that was announced at the 2018 GPU Technology Conference in San Jose, is now being opened up to customers. The data center based simulation system uses two parallel sets of Nvidia computing systems. A set of GPUs generates simulated sensor signals based on the input scenarios. These signals are then fed into the Drive AGX Pegasus car computer running the AV software. Pegasus is a platform specifically designed to enable highly automated Level 4 or 5 driving.
Since the many edge cases that are most likely to trip up a virtual driver system are often difficult or impossible to replicate in the real world, advanced simulation will be key to validating the performance of these systems. Waymo, for example, drives millions of miles every day in simulation covering hundreds of thousands of scenarios compared to the thousands of miles accumulated by its fleet of vehicles in far more limited conditions.
In Europe, TÜV SÜD is using Drive Constellation to develop their automated driving validation standards. The Toyota Research Institute-Advanced Development is the first commercial customer for Constellation.
Nvidia will soon be publishing a white paper on SFF and is opening it up for any company to use as part of its automated driving system. Ultimately, for companies like Nvidia, Mobileye and others to be commercially successful in the automated driving business, consumers must trust and use the technology. If they don’t, the tens of billions of dollars being invested will go to waste, so vendors have an incentive to create systems like SFF and RSS to bridge that trust gap. Besides, who wouldn’t want a Safety Force Field around their car?

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 4.184508323669434

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 4.214041233062744

NVDA price the day of article release: 4.192697525024414