Nvidia Research Confirms What Gives Some Gamers An Edge In Battle Royale Games Like Apex Legends

Mar 07, 2019, 10:28am EST

Many gamers, whether professional eSports types, game streamers or enthusiasts, have known for a while now that high refresh rate monitors paired with more powerful GPUs for high frame rates, deliver smoother, more responsive gameplay that contributes positively to their overall performance. The simple premise is that gaming at high frame rates and panel refresh rate offers a reduction in input latency for better reaction time, and also better pixel fidelity and consistency for tracking and targeting in games. Given that there is reasonably low network latency for a gaming session, the faster your monitor can have frames pushed to it and update itself, the better the gamer's ability to react to the fast-paced action in wildly popular battle royale type games like Fortnite, Apex Legends and Player Unknown's Battlegrounds. Top gamers know this and it makes sense; the faster a gamer can get screen updates with high image fidelity, the better. It's logical, but Nvidia wanted to prove-out what has generally accepted gameplay theory currently, with empirical data.
As it turns out, the company's GeForce Experience Highlights tool specifically tracks gamer stats, like kill-to-death (K/D) ratio in game titles like these, along with non-user identifiable information regarding system configuration, hours played and screen resolution. With all this data at its disposal, Nvidia decided to investigate what the statistics actually looked like for K/D with various graphics card types and display refresh rates, to see if the data proves out what many top gamers believe to be true. I should note the results here are provided at face value by Nvidia and again were claimed to be extracted from the mountain of data the company's GeForce Experience tool gathers about gamers that have it installed on their system in conjunction with Nvidia graphics cards.
It's important to underscore that Nvidia obviously was only able to glean this specific data from its GeForce Experience tool suite, so obviously, the company doesn't show kill-to-death ratio (K/D) performance gains based on other GPUs here.  Certainly, powerful AMD GPUs can deliver a similar return on investment, depending on game title, resolution and graphics settings. However, the numbers here show that regardless of how many hours gamers typically played during the week, the more powerful the GPU under the hood of their gaming PC, generally speaking, K/D ratio scaled northward proportionally. The spread is tighter as you get to the 10 hours or less mark, but actually expands more-so on the other end of the hours played spectrum. The difference in K/D ratio can vary as much as 200%, according to this data, between gamers on a low-end GeForce GTX 1050 Ti and gamers on a higher-end GeForce GTX 1080 Ti. You might argue that gamers on higher-end hardware are generally more-skilled players that are also more serious about gaming, but that's where the hours played per week number counter-balances that claim.
The next set of numbers Nvidia puts forth as evidence here are bit more telling where the sweet spot is. For years now, many gamers would offer that 60 FPS (with at least 60Hz panel refresh) is the playable sweet spot for any game title. However, the new 60Hz should perhaps now be considered a 144Hz panel along with a blistering 144 FPS to drive it (at least for fast-twitch games). On average, 144Hz panels driven by a capable GPU delivered a 45 - 50% increase in K/D ratio and the more powerful the GPU, the higher the gain. Interestingly, a prior generation GeForce GTX 1080 Ti delivers as much gain as the new GeForce RTX 20 series cards (at 1080p resolution) in PUBG and Fortnite. However, all of Nvidia's Turing family of products can hit 144 Hz in Fortnite, even the new more budget-friendly GeForce GTX 1660 Ti.
Nvidia assumed High image quality in-game settings to pull these numbers at 1080p resolution. Again, the premise here is that as much of 50% gain in K/D ratio can be had at these game settings and with these GPUs, depending on other aspects of system performance as well of course. It should be noted that you'll definitely need a balanced system with a strong CPU to feed GPUs at this kind of frame rate. Think higher clock speeds with at least 4 cores, preferably 6 but with the emphasis on clock speed. For example, Nvidia configured their system in the above graph with an Intel Core i7-8700K CPU - a 6-core at 3.7GHz base/4.7GHz Turbo.
Finally, we have the latest blockbuster battle royale hit, Apex Legends here, which takes a bit more GPU muscle to push north of 120 FPS to drive a high refresh rate panel on High IQ. A new GeForce RTX 2060 may just kiss that 144 FPS bar or fall short, depending on your config but an RTX 2070 or above will get the job done better, according to Nvidia.
Again, it's important to underscore that all of the data provided here comes from Nvidia. Although the company certainly has an agenda disseminating the information this way, it's also logical that faster game engine response times, coupled with a higher refresh rate panel, can give pro-gamers or even just enthusiast mainstream users a definitive edge. Now, Nvidia argues, we have the data to prove out the theory as well. And of course, whatever your GPU brand of choice is, in general, the higher its horsepower to push pixels, the better off you'll be in the battle royale.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 3.8906850814819336

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 3.773303747177124

NVDA price the day of article release: 3.70406723022461