Digesting Nvidia's GeForce RTX 2080 And RTX 2080 Ti Performance, Features And Price

Sep 20, 2018, 05:15pm EDT

Yesterday, Nvidia lifted the veil on performance figures of its new GeForce RTX 2080 and GeForce RTX 2080 Ti graphics cards, based on the company’s Turing GPU microarchitecture. If you have been following the launch over the past month or so, you’re probably aware that Turing brings with it not only additional GPU resources for traditional rasterization rendering, but also cutting-edge technologies with new core engines for real-time ray tracing and even Tensor cores for deep learning and AI-assisted rendering techniques.
You’re probably also aware that the GeForce RTX 2080 and 2080 Ti cards that have launched are rather expensive, relatively speaking, versus Nvidia’s previous generation high-end Pascal-based graphics cards like the GeForce GTX 1080 and 1080 Ti. Specifically, a GeForce RTX 2080 Founder’s Edition card has an MSRP of $799, while the GeForce RTX 2080 Ti FE retails for $1199. When it debuted, Nvidia’s GeForce GTX 1080 Ti had an MSRP of $699, so the price deltas here are significant no doubt. As a result, high expectations were set for performance reviews that just went live.
HotHardware benchmarked these two Nvidia Turing-based cards in a wide swath of game engines and GPGPU compute workloads, as did a myriad of tech sites across the web. HotHardware noted the performance profiles work out to this: “GeForce RTX 2080 Ti is approximately 20 – 45% faster than a Titan Xp and it makes smooth, 4K gaming with ultra-high image quality settings a reality with a single GPU. Performance was especially strong with newer, optimized titles like FarCry 5 and in the VR-related benchmarks, but the card led across the board in all gaming tests.” And with respect to the GeForce RTX 2080, it was observed that “…whether considering the Nvidia-built Founder’s Edition or customized EVGA and MSI cards we also featured, is a little more difficult to summarize. The GeForce RTX 2080 clearly outpaces the GeForce GTX 1080 by a wide margin across the board. Its performance was also strong in newer titles and in the VR-related tests, and it generally performed on-par or somewhat better than a GeForce GTX 1080 Ti, though it did nudge past the Titan Xp on a couple of occasions as well.”
So that’s the long and short on performance, though you can feel free to pore through the numbers for yourself of course.  Whether or not these performance figures make sense, versus the price premium the RTX 2080 and RTX 2080 Ti command is where the rubber meets the road for a lot of gamers and enthusiasts around the web. Analysis and chatter is ongoing, with some people citing that a 20 – 45% gain for a $1200 graphics card is exorbitant. Meanwhile, smaller gains or on-par performance in the case of the RTX 2080 at $800, versus a 1080 Ti that can be had for as little as $150 less, just doesn’t cut it. However, I’d offer that Nvidia hedged its bets on Turing’s key next-gen graphics rendering engines that I mentioned earlier, and over time gamers and graphics pros have the potential to realize more upside performance and features as return on their investment in either of these two Nvidia Turing GPUs.
It’s not easy being an early adopter, and let’s face it, any completely new generation of product in a graphics card family has a bit of inherent risk associated with it. However, what Nvidia has done with Turing is nothing short of true innovation in gaming graphics, when you consider features like DLSS or Deep Learning Super Sampling, and its RT cores for real-time ray tracing. These blocks take up a significant chunk of silicon real estate in Turing, and silicon area, plain and simple, directly correlates to cost. There are no two ways around this. For reference, the Pascal GPU on-board a GeForce GTX 1080 Ti measures 471 square millimeters in size, while the TU102 on the RTX 2080 Ti measures a gargantuan 754 square millimeters. That’s a massive 60% increase in die area and huge commitment by Nvidia to the new Tensor and RT core resources on board. To be fair, not all of that extra die area is committed to these new processing engines, but you can bet a big chunk of it is. Now, investing in some wiz-bang software tricks for a next-gen graphics card is one thing, but do you think Nvidia would invest large chunks of silicon real estate (and cost as a direct result) in GPU resources and features they weren’t confident would offer significant, tangible benefit?
If you’ve seen DLSS in action over the past few weeks, and watched the performance benefits and image quality it brings, then you know there’s potential for much bigger gains in performance with Turing. DNNs (or Deep Neural Network) models are built for game engines on Nvidia machine learning servers and then passed down to the client machine’s Turing GPU as an update to a game library in Nvidia’s GeForce Experience software suite. Then, instead of having to sample and re-render a frame over and over to reduce aliasing, the machine-learned algorithm just uses the model to render images in scenes as cleanly as possible, versus what it’s been fed as perfect target image sample. This to me, this is an excellent use of machine learning inferencing to enhance performance and visuals, and Nvidia employs Turing’s Tensor cores to achieve this.
Further, if you’ve seen real-time ray tracing in action, you know the increased level of realism for gaming and VR apps that properly rendered lighting, shadows and reflections can bring. In mixed rendering, with traditional rasterization and ray tracing combined, it can help render a scene that looks cinematic and much more life-like. Real-time ray tracing has been referred to as the “holy grail” of graphics for gaming and other apps, and you need dedicated hardware like RT cores, to do it practically as well. It will run on legacy hardware without specific RT resources, sure, if you like watching slide shows.
So before you cast judgement too quickly on the cost of Nvidia’s new GeForce RTX 2080 and RTX 2080 Ti, remember the intrinsic cost of innovation too.  I wouldn’t try to justify the cost of these new graphics cards against your own personal value scale. That’s up to you to decide. Also, it will take game developer adoption to enable these new features and techniques, some of which is easier to implement than others. However, I’ve been covering computer graphics for nearly two decades now, and I’d say Nvidia’s investment in silicon area for next generation graphics technologies like DLSS and ray tracing will pay off sooner, rather than later, for the company, PC gamers and workstation professionals alike.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 6.784115791320801

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 6.7358245849609375

NVDA price the day of article release: 6.594657897949219