NVIDIA Just Made The Face Of AI A Little Less Uncanny In The Valley

Oct 30, 2017, 04:21pm EDT

If you're familiar with the term "uncanny valley," you'll know it refers to man or machine-built or rendered characters that look enough like real human beings that they're just a little freaky and give you an uncanny, not quite comfortable feeling. It's a sort of revulsion that results in the human psyche when observing robots, 3D animations or manikins that are fairly convincing but somehow uncomfortably unnatural. Oddly enough, this is a phenomena that NVIDIA, in its efforts to design more powerful graphics processors, has been working hard on with game developers for a long time, to create more photorealistic 3D renderings of humans and other creatures. And with the company’s recent efforts in GPU-accelerated machine learning technologies, it appears to be making significant progress on bridging the uncanny valley in other ways as well, with something referred to as a GAN or Generative Adversarial Network.
The result are a series of still photographs completely machine-generated and not of actual real people but that look eerily real enough. You can see the process in action on video as well. NVIDIA employs this GAN configuration with two neural networks, one called the generator and the other the discriminator, and they're setup to complement each other in sort of a peer review process. The generator starts from a low resolution image and builds upon it, while the discriminator assesses the results and makes suggestions on ways to improve accuracy and realism. This is a high level description of the process but essentially this neural network of GPU-accelerated machines just bounce renderings off each other, after being fed photos of real people, to generate their own, completely unique version of a human photograph. NVIDIA took at database of celebrities and fed them into the machine, as a foundation for training the system in a self-learning process of how to render a realistic looking picture of a human face.
NVIDIA notes in a recently released research paper (PDF), "We describe a new training methodology for generative adversarial networks. The key idea is to grow both the generator and discriminator progressively, starting from low-resolution images, and add new layers that deal with higher resolution details as the training progresses. This greatly stabilizes the training and allows us to produce images of unprecedented quality, e.g., CelebA images at 1024² resolution. We also propose a simple way to increase the variation in generated images, and achieve a record inception score of 8.80 in unsupervised CIFAR10. Additionally, we describe several implementation details that are important for discouraging unhealthy competition between the generator and discriminator. Finally, we suggest a new metric for evaluating GAN results, both in terms of image quality and variation. As an additional contribution, we construct a higher-quality version of the CELEBA dataset. "
The "CELEBA" dataset is a set of artificial celebrity images that are so real, you'd think you were looking at real humans, though they're actually machine-generated. You can think of any number of applications where this technology could be highly valuable, from video games to movies and other types of content creation. There are, however, limitations currently with respect to image resolution and other anomalies, but at the very least it's an impressive demonstration of both machine learning and machine vision technologies.
So yes, the uncanny valley may be getting a little less uncanny these days, as the machines are learning to make things more life-like through observation, learning and iteration. Are you good with that?

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 4.784275531768799

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 4.986853122711182

NVDA price the day of article release: 5.035766124725342