Nvidia And Waymo Grab Early Lead In First Lap Of Self-Driving Car Race

May 22, 2017, 11:40am EDT

It’s too soon to declare a winner in the long race to perfect self-driving cars but Nvidia and Alphabet’s Waymo (created to commercialize Google’s automated vehicle R&D) have notched successes in both technology and strategic partnerships. Don't count anyone out yet, though, as the Intel-Mobileye-BMW-Delphi alliance grows increasingly formidable and Elon Musk's Tesla is hard at work forging its own path.
Success at this stage is measured in partners and programs that set their technology on a path to becoming an industry standard. Waymo offers complete driverless vehicle hardware and software developed over many years, while Nvidia has gobs of processing power and a platform to train vehicle brains to recognize and react to road conditions. They’re preparing for a market that may be worth nearly $80 billion a year by 2035, according to the Boston Consulting Group.
“Partnerships will be the key to successfully competing on automated driving – and different companies, from automakers to suppliers to data providers to fleet managers to platform developers, can be valuable partners,” Bryant Walker Smith, a law professor at the University of South Carolina and research scholar at Stanford Law School's Center for Internet and Society, told Forbes.
Last week Waymo, in the middle of a bruising legal battle with Uber over the theft of Google trade secrets from its self-driving car project, confirmed plans to launch a pilot program for its system with Lyft, Uber’s biggest rival. That followed the start of a public test of Waymo driverless vehicles in Phoenix that may soon become the biggest in the country. It’s also in talks to collaborate with Honda on driverless vehicle tech and Waymo has expanded a supply deal with FCA’s Chrysler to get more Pacifica Hybrid minivans in its public fleet.
“Technologically, Waymo/Google, they are still considerably ahead of everyone,” Mike Ramsey, an analyst for Gartner research, told Forbes. “There is a huge amount of validation and implementation work that has to occur with this technology and they have been doing it so much longer, going back to 2009, than anyone else.”
Likewise, Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang revealed a tech partnership with Toyota this month, surprising his audience at the graphics chipmaker's annual GPU Technology Conference. The plan calls for supplying the auto giant with Nvidia’s Drive PX computing system and working with Toyota engineers to create autonomous drive software using Nvidia’s AI platform. That follows a long string of alliances Nvidia has racked up since last year, with companies including Volvo, Tesla, Audi, Mercedes-Benz, Germany’s ZF and Bosch, the world’s largest auto parts firm.
Given the vast scale of Toyota, which annually sells more than 10 million autos worldwide, a successful partnership could make it Nvidia’s most important yet. The announcement caught Susquehanna International Group analyst Christopher Rolland off guard, who called Toyota’s selection of the Drive PX system a “big win” in a research note to investors. In particular, it may connect Nvidia to key parts companies within Toyota’s network of suppliers.
“We think it is likely that Denso, a key Toyota supplier, will become the Tier 1 facilitating the full system,” Rolland said. “While it was known that Denso was working on their own solution, their limited progress in the endeavor prompted some to believe they might eventually move to Mobileye.”
Toyota’s selection of Nvidia is a “negative for Intel’s latest acquisition” – Mobileye, he said. Intel’s March purchase of Mobileye, a maker of machine vision technology for $15 billion this year is the biggest deal to date in the autonomous vehicle tech space.
Still, Mobileye’s extensive experience providing camera-based sensors to carmakers, combined with Intel’s processor technology and financial resources can’t be dismissed. Their partnership in with BMW, announced last year, picked up steam this month with the addition of parts maker Delphi Automotive, joining what Forbes auto editor Joann Muller calls an “all-star tech team” to create an autonomous vehicle platform that can be adopted by other automakers.
As consequential as the potential of Intel-Mobileye initiative, and its work with BMW and Delphi, may be “it still has to come together,” Jeremy Carlson, senior automotive tech analyst IHS Markit, told Forbes.
“The extensive integration to create that value proposition still has to come,” he said. “I’m sure that it will.”
Meanwhile, Tesla’s Elon Musk is pushing his engineers to keep rolling out wireless updates to the company’s latest generation of electric vehicles with a goal of giving them the ability to drive themselves under most circumstances within another year or two.
Uber has channeled substantial resources into its Advanced Technologies Group to perfect self-driving capability that CEO Travis Kalanick believes is essential for the long-term viability of the ridehailing business. And regardless of how its legal fight with Waymo plays out, Uber is showing no signs of backing off on R&D, adding a new Canadian unit to work on AI development with its teams in Pittsburgh and San Francisco.
Similarly, General Motors and Cruise Automation, the Detroit-based carmaker’s San Francisco-based autonomous vehicle tech unit say they’re making rapid progress, and will have a system ready for deployment in a rideshare program “sooner than most people in the industry think,” Cruise CEO Kyle Vogt told Forbes, without elaborating.
Ford created Argo AI earlier this year, a Pittsburgh-based unit tasked with overseeing development of the artificial intelligence needed to control self-driving vehicles it intends to roll out by 2021. If all goes well, Ford hopes to also license tech developed by Argo to other automakers. Yet news late Sunday that Ford sacked Mark Fields as CEO throws that strategy into question.
  And by the time it’s ready, Ford and Argo will have face competition from Waymo as well as numerous startups including Drive.ai, nuTonomy, Nuro and Aurora Innovation, a company led by former Google and Tesla autonomous tech stars Chris Urmson and Sterling Anderson.
It will be years before any company can declare victory in the race to fully robotic transportation, but look for Waymo and Nvidia to keep forging as many friendly partnerships as possible to achieve that.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 3.1491687297821045

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 3.356858253479004

NVDA price the day of article release: 3.428438186645508