Nvidia Hopes To Stave Off AI Chip Competition With Volta Graphics Card

May 10, 2017, 08:21pm EDT

Artificial intelligence has become so important to Google that the tech giant started making its own chips. Announced at its annual developers conference last year, the Tensor Processing Unit (TPU) is optimized for its particular flavor of AI algorithms. Now, dozens of new chips are coming out of the woodwork to offer companies similar types of specialized chips for AI. All this activity is starting to put some pressure on graphics chipmaker Nvidia, which has found itself in recent years as the dominant chip supplier for a popular form of AI called deep learning.
(Read more: The New Intel: How Nvidia Went From Powering Video Games To Revolutionizing Artificial Intelligence)
To fight back, Nvidia is also starting to go down the route of increased specialization with its latest graphics processing units (or GPUs).
At its annual GPU Technology Conference on Wednesday, Nvidia announced the Tesla V100, its latest product focused on the server market that's based on its next-generation graphics architecture, called Volta. The chip has more than 21 billion transistors and 5,120 computing cores. But most crucially for AI, the Tesla V100 is equipped with 640 of so-called Tensor Cores, which are new specialized computing cores designed to run the mathematical operations used in deep learning networks. These Tensor Cores deliver a blistering 120 teraflops of deep learning performance, the company claimed.
Nvidia said the new chip speeds up deep learning training by 12 times and speeds up deep learning inferencing by six times over the company's previous generation architecture, dubbed Pascal. The company said its new architecture is the equivalent of 100 central processing units (like those from Intel) for running deep learning applications.
Nvidia is also offering more software tools for making the deep learning operations run more efficiently on its hardware. It announced TensorRT, a compiler for deep learning frameworks TensorFlow and Caffe to improve inference performance. Nvidia said inference on the Tesla V100 is 15 to 25 times faster than Intel's Skylake CPU architecture.
While Nvidia is trying to make its chips better suited for deep learning, the competition likes to point out that one of Nvidia's biggest weaknesses is that GPUs will always have to support what they were originally designed to do: generating graphics. Having to support graphics adds a considerable amount of bulk to the chip. That means GPUs will always be less efficient than a specialized chip to a certain degree, rivals claim.
In a recent blog, Google claimed its TPU chips were 15 to 30 times faster than modern GPUs and CPUs on inferencing tasks, and 30 to 80 times more energy efficient on tera-operations per Watt of energy consumed. (Nvidia's rebuttal was that Google was comparing TPUs with older GPUs.) And chip rival Intel acquired AI chip startup Nervana for more than $400 million and claimed it will improve deep learning training performance 100 times by 2020.
Nvidia said the Tesla V100 is an example of how it is specializing further in this field and how it can still compete with these custom chips. “At the end of the day, we’re all painting with the same paintbrushes,” said Jonah Alben, senior vice president of GPU engineering at Nvidia, about the AI chip competition. “If you look at all the ingredients for a great chip for training, you’ve got bandwidth, input/output and math. We’re an expert in all those things.”
Although Google is probably the furthest along in bringing out a custom AI chip at any sort of scale, Nvidia still has many years on the competition. “None of the AI chips are shipping in high volumes,” said Mark Hung, an analyst at Gartner. “I’d say the latent threat is always there for Nvidia, but it doesn't get serious until one of these companies starts executing and shipping in volume.”
The competition between these upcoming AI chips and Nvidia all points to an emerging need for simply more processing power in deep learning computing. A few years ago, GPUs took off because they cut the training time for a deep learning network from months to days. Deep learning, which had been around since at least the 1950s, suddenly had real potential with GPU power behind it. But as more companies try to integrate deep learning into their products and services, they're only going to need faster and faster chips.
“All the evidence I've seen is that people want infinite amounts of deep learning computing,” said Alben. “The closer you get to infinite, the better.”

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 2.560856580734253

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 2.538172006607056

NVDA price the day of article release: 2.9906249046325684