Nvidia Shield TV (2017) Long-Term Review: An Expensive Niche

Apr 29, 2017, 11:00am EDT

The set top box market is crowded, and with most of the competition battling it out at the lower-end, is there compelling reason to spend $199 on the Nvidia Shield TV (2017)?
After a few months with the Shield, I can comfortably say that the answer to that question is a simple no. The longer answer is, well, also a no. But it’s a soft no, a hesitant no, a no that says ‘I’m only saying no because you asked me a yes or no question’.
As with anything, the real answer is nuanced and complex. That’s because the Shield basically does everything a Chromecast+phone does - for a lot more money - but with a lot more style and finesse, too. Oh, and it has a pretty impressive gaming setup that basically blows the competition out of the water, more on that later.
Design
The very shape of the device is significantly different to the competition. Roku, Apple TV, Amazon Fire TV and most Android boxes are flat, square and unassuming. Chromecast hides itself behind your TV. The obvious reason is you don’t want the tech stealing the show and diverting valuable eye-time away from the screen.
Nvidia went against the grain and made an abstract, geometric frame, dipped it in jet black and brushed it with luminous green highlights. For sci-fi fans, it’s appealing. For everyone else, it’s fairly ugly. My pastel-hued, plant-decorated living room is dominated by soft colours and wooden furnishings that engender a calm environment.
The industrial, post-apocalyptic sharp angles and unforgiving colours of the Shield aren’t very welcome. I understand, Nvidia wants to stay on brand with all of its devices, but TV stuff is - and should be - a different ball game.
Fortunately, the 2017 shield is a lot smaller than the 2015 version. So it takes up less space and draws fractionally less attention.
The downside of a smaller device is that Nvidia had to remove some connectivity to shrink the Shield down. Gone is the SD card, which I personally found quite useful. But there’s still two USB ports, ethernet, HDMI and a micro-USB charging port, which is more than enough for most users. I initially thought that I’d need the extra USB ports for external storage because of the low 16GB of on board memory, but since everything is streamed - including video games - I didn’t find much need for extra storage.
Setup and interface
Because it’s an Android box, if you’re an Android user with a Google account, it’s a fairly simple setup. At least, it should be. The device itself requires little more than passwords for your subscriptions services and the wifi password. This can all be done if you setup with your Google account via the Google app on your phone.
The idea is that once Shield connects to your phone, it’ll take care of everything else. Of course, it didn’t quite work out like that. I repeatedly had the ‘something went wrong’ message as I attempted the setup assault course. I got there eventually, but I injured myself in the process.
When you’re in, your wifi, Netflix, Amazon Prime Video (new to Shield TV, huzzah!) and other subscriptions services will all automatically sign in. No manually entering email address and passwords one character at a time here.
Navigating around the UI is glorious. Powered by an NVIDIA Tegra X1 processor 256-core Maxwell GPU and 3GB of RAM means it’s buttery smooth to use. The outlay is simple, too. TV services, gaming and apps are all divided cleanly and easily accessible.
Nvidia has also added a few pro-tricks to help you navigate around and find the content you want to watch.
First is a very nice remote (which now comes bundled with the device, whereas it was a $50 extra for the 2015 model). The remote has two main features; voice control and toggling volume by sensually sliding your finger up through the main frame of the controller. The latter works well enough, although it can take a second or two for the Shield to register a volume change. The former, annoyingly, doesn't.
The issue with the voice control on the remote isn’t a recognition issue, as you might expect. That’s actually very good, even with my east-London diction. Rather it’s more to do with functionality. Voice-control actually just means ‘voice search’. You can search for content you want to watch, but you can’t pause, skip or rewind with a command. If you activate the voice search halfway through a video, you’ll be taken out of the content and back to the search screen.
There’s two things there: it would be good for searches to appear as a box within a box, rather than dragging you out of what you’re watching. But also, you should be able to pause, rewind, skip and play with a voice command. Just like you can with Google Home and Chromecast. If Shield wants to justify that price-tag, it needs to have everyday features like this.
Elsewhere the dexterity of the device is best demonstrated by the app-store. This is an Android device, so it has access to the masses of Android TV apps available. Side-loading apps is easy too, especially with all of the connectivity the Shield boasts.
If you’re into media streaming and use stuff like Plex or Kodi, or subscribe to other (legal) internet TV services - then Shield handles this stuff well. Of course, you can do a lot of it with Chromecast, but the more detailed IPTV stuff needs an Android box. Since most Android boxes are cheap, nasty and slow - using a powerhouse like Shield gives you a rare luxury experience.
The Shield's support for 4K streaming is also a major reason pick this over the competition. It supports 4K streaming for practically every major subscription service including Google Play, Netflix and Amazon prime video, but also for media streaming services like Plex and Kodi. In fact, it’s the only major device to offer full 4K support across multiple services.
On page two: gaming
Gaming
OK, the good stuff. I said ‘more on this later’ in the intro, well here we are. This is later. You made it, well done. Here’s some XP.
Gaming on the Shield comes in three forms; streaming from your PC, streaming from Nvidia’s servers via their game rental service and Android games. All of which is underpinned by a dedicated by a surprisingly decent gaming controller.
The Android gaming is as you’d expect, phone games on your TV. So I’m not going to dive into that. The real draw is streaming from your TV and the game rental service. I couldn’t try the former out because it requires an Nvidia GTX powered PC -  I’m an AMD man - but the concept is good. In essence, you can play your PC games in on your TV in 4K via your Shield. This is useful if - as I imagine is the case with most people - one has a better TV than they do monitor.
The other service is GeForce Now, a streaming service - like Netflix - for video games. For $7.99 you get access to a decent library of games, which is mostly made up of recently(ish)-released blockbusters and lesser known games. For the brand new stuff, you have to pay full-price to play them. For me, I’ve found it useful for games I didn’t want to commit to buying at full price when they were first released but still wanted to play. Stuff like Homefront: Revolution. A sort of ‘second chance’ service that lets you dip into titles that would pass you by. A service I never knew I needed, but has absolutely improved my gaming life.
Don’t expect to play these games over wifi, however. With a solid connection I had serious problems with latency, audio blips and frame rate drops. It’s not a hardware issue with the Shield, because it supports 802.11ac 2x2 MIMO 2.4GHz and 5GHz Wi-Fi. A full HD game is clearly a bit too much to handle, so it’s best to plug in an ethernet cable, which dramatically improves the experience.
Worth $199?
So here’s the thing: A Chromecast paired with Plex (free version) costs $35. That hardware/app combination basically does the important stuff, which is streaming content - minus Amazon Prime Video but plus All4. Chromecast’s additional features via Google Home in controlling the content you're watching makes that combination a better option (if you have Google Home that is - this is getting a bit expensive now). But, what does justify the price is 4K support and game streaming - both locally and from the cloud. Yes, the latter costs an additional $7.99, but you’ll have access to a large library of good and recent(ish) games. Also adding some nice hardware - controller, Shield - and UI to your homebrew media streaming setups shouldn’t be sniffed at. If you’re a media streaming nerd, the Shield should be your first choice.
So for playing PC games on your TV, streaming games from the cloud and adding some finesse to how your homebrew media streaming setup - Nvidia's Shield TV (2017) is a absolutely worth the money - if you’re serious about media centers. It’s frankly the best streaming device on the market.
If, however, you just want to watch Netflix and YouTube, save yourself $199 and get a Chromecast. Better yet, your TV probably already has those apps baked in.
More on Forbes
Google Home Vs. Amazon's Alexa: 45 Complex Questions, 1 Clear Winner


NVDA price 3 days before article release: 2.5825557708740234

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 2.6047465801239014

NVDA price the day of article release: 2.571705818176269