Nvidia Addresses Google's Comparison Of Machine Learning Chips

Apr 11, 2017, 01:58pm EDT

Last week Google released a paper that compared the speed and efficiency of their first-generation Tensor processing unit (TPU) with a central processing unit (CPU) from Intel and a graphics processing unit (GPU) from Nvidia. The TPU was markedly faster and more efficient than either the GPU or the CPU and the media took note. Yesterday Jensen Huang, co-founder, president and CEO of Nvidia, addressed Google’s test results in a blog post on the Nvidia website.
Google’s TPU is an ASIC (application specific integrated circuit) that is custom designed to work with Google’s machine learning platform, Tensorflow.  The version of the TPU Google tested was running in their data centers in 2015. In order to have a fair comparison, the TPU was matched against contemporary chips from Nvidia (the Kepler K80 GPU) and Intel (the Haswell CPU).
This was the right thing to do to have a fair test but as Huang points out in his blog post, Google compared older-generation chips. Nvidia’s current Pascal chips are two generations removed from Kepler and Intel’s Kaby Lake architecture is three generations beyond Haswell. Moreover, Kepler, unlike Pascal, was not optimized for machine learning applications while Google's custom-designed ASIC was built to do nothing but deep learning.
When I covered Google’s test yesterday, I pointed out that the chips being compared had been superseded by superior technology. Nvidia and Intel have publicized the architectural details of their current-generation chips. Google has remained silent about whether the 2015 TPU that was tested has been surpassed by more powerful chips. However, it’s probably a safe bet that Google let the 2015 TPU cat out of the bag because they have a new cat.
While the data needed to compare current generation chips are not publicly available, Nvidia published the table above to illustrate how their Pascal architecture has advanced beyond Kepler in comparison to Google’s 2015 TPU. In the table, TOPS refers to teraflops (trillions of operations per second), FP means “floating point”, and INT means “integer”.
As can be seen in the table, Pascal is much more powerful and a bit more efficient than Kepler. How Pascale compares to whatever versions of the TPU Google is running currently is unknown.
In his blog post, Huang is at pains to point out that Google and Nvidia are taking different paths to the same end – the development of chips that can support the massive computational demands of large-scale artificial intelligence. I think this is an important point that undercuts some of the chest pounding about which chip is faster or more efficient.
Speed and efficiency are critical parameters of chip performance for massive AI-scale implementations. However, it only makes sense to compare speed and efficiency across chips that are designed to fill the same role. If chip A can be swapped with chip B without gain or loss of function, comparing their speed and efficiency benchmarks makes sense. If functional differences are involved, factors in addition to speed and efficiency have to be taken into account.
TPUs, GPUs and CPUs can’t be swapped at will in data centers devoted to powerful AI because they all serve different needs. TPUs and GPUs receive instructions from CPUs, they can’t function without a CPU. CPUs and GPUs are general purpose chips that can support a variety of software platforms to carry out a variety of different tasks. ASIC’s are built to work with specific applications. Note the “NA” in the TPU column for Training TOPS in the table. The 2015 TPU was specialized to perform inference in a deep learning model running in Tensorflow. It couldn’t do training.
The point is that data-center-scale AI needs to make effective use of all three kinds of chips. Which chip is used for what depends on the machines running in the data center and how the AI software is configured across the machines. Focusing on “chip wars” may make for “good” headlines but it makes little sense inside the data center.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 2.4844207763671875

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 2.410697221755981

NVDA price the day of article release: 2.4193267822265625