NVIDIA's New GTX 1080 Ti GPU Gets A Jump On AMD

Mar 07, 2017, 02:54am EST

This year’s Game Developers Conference (GDC) set the battleground for another skirmish between long-time Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) foes AMD and NVIDIA. NVIDIA is the reigning champ in discrete desktop graphics chips with 72.4% market share (per Mercury Research), while AMD has announced its new GPU architecture, called Vega, which will attempt to gain additional market share when it launches in Q2. But NVIDIA is not content to sit back and wait for AMD to catch up – it has gone on the offensive with a new high-performance GPU based on a tweaked version of its existing high-performance Pascal GPU architecture. NVIDIA’s new performance champ is the GTX 1080 Ti and preorders have already sold out.
NVIDIA hosted an Editors’ Day with industry analysts, press, and tech enthusiast sites to introduce updates to its extensive set of developer tools. Because this event was held during the Game Developers Conference (GDC), developer tools were an appropriate topic. But, the real reason everybody stayed to the end was NVIDIA’s much anticipated (and much leaked) new high-performance GPU. By launching the GTX 1080 Ti now, NVIDIA hopes to take some wind out of AMD’s Vega launch in Q2. With higher clock speeds and faster memory, NVIDIA increased the 1080 Ti performance 20% to 45% faster than the current GTX 1080. The “Ti” brand is a traditional NVIDIA mid-life “kicker” product, but with the company’s  35% nominal performance increase, this version is the company’s most aggressive Ti product yet. The big push for higher performance could be because NVIDIA is anticipating AMD’s higher GPU performance with the Vega architecture and wanted to preemptively counter it. So far, NVIDIA has only shown its own performance assessments – third party benchmarks have yet to be published.
Developer Tools Announcements
NVIDIA has substantial tool support for Microsoft DirectX 12 graphics API with its GameWorks product. Standardizing on DirectX 12 allows the NVIDIA tools to be hardware agnostic. As a result, there is less reliance on NVIDIA’s proprietary CUDA environment. With respect to popular game engines, NVIDIA is heavily involved with Unity and Unreal, but also has a budding engagement with Amazon’s Lumberyard engine. While the company also supports the Vulcan graphics API, the successor to OpenGL, it’s not yet as widely used as DirectX12. NVIDIA invests in game development tools in order to make games more visually interesting and immersive – and graphically intensive games sell more graphic cards.
Part of NVIDIA’s improved tool chain kit is a DX12 debug tool called Aftermath, which helps classifies GPU crashes by location and type. It creates a log in persistent storage that can be used to isolate problems and is light weight enough to be used in shipping games. The first game engine to incorporate Aftermath will be the Unity Engine.
The latest developer tools also utilize deep learning neural nets for more automatic game content generation. One example is style transfer. Using Artisto style transfer can simplify creating new game content by applying a design style to multiple objects. It can also be used for facial detection, image super-resolution and material synthesis.
Give Us the Hardware!
The star of the night, though, was the GTX 1080 Ti. NVIDIA CEO Jen-Hsun Huang held court at a party after the briefing to deliver the final key message to a specially invited audience, including many NVIDIA fans.
The reference card comes with 11Gb of frame buffer that runs at 11Gbps data speeds (cue the Spinal Tap reference). NVIDIA worked with Micron to push GDDR5 to 11Gbps data, beyond standard configurations. The standard GTX 1080 board’s memory also has “only” 8GB of GDDR5 running at 10Gbps.
This is also a massive amount of memory for a consumer card. The large frame buffer is especially useful for pixel rendering on the latest 5K HDR displays. Speaking of massive, the chip has 12 billon transistors and 3584 “CUDA” cores. NVIDIA boosted the number of cores by 40%, from 2560 cores in the standard GTX 1080.  Pushing the Pascal architecture for more performance, while maintaining the same process node (16nm FinFET), results in a significant increase in maximum power for the 1080 Ti - up 30% from 180W to 250W. The 250W maximum power rating is the same as the NVIDIA’s top Titan X card.
The 1080 Ti is also faster than the company’s previous top card on gaming - the Titan X. Titan X is still useful for applications that need fast 64-bit (double-precision) floating point math, but for gaming, the 1080 Ti is the new champ. The exact gaming performance gains of the 1080 Ti over the Titan X will be seen in the third part testing.
The new GTX 1080 Ti card has a list price of $699, which is a substantial discount to the Titan X card which costs over $1000. With the launch of the new part, NVIDIA cut the price of the regular GTX 1080 by $100. Initial 1080 Ti card shipments will be from NVIDIA, with 3rd party shipments starting soon after. There appears to be limited quantities of the 1080Ti cards at the launch as a number of Editor Day attendees did not receive cards for testing after the event. In addition, Jen-Hsun gave away five Titan X cards to audience attendees before announcing the GTX 1080 Ti, which beats the Titan X cards. Perhaps NVIDIA wanted to (slightly) deplete Titan X inventory, but you’d image he would give away 1080 Ti cards at the launch event – if there was enough inventory on hand.
It’s possible NVIDIA pulled the 1080 Ti launch forward to counter a concurrent AMD event at GDC, anticipating that AMD might preemptively launch the new Vega GPU. However, AMD’s event only promoted a new brand name for Vega (Radeon RX) and a new game studio partnership for Ryzen CPUs. The Vega launch is still expected sometime in Q2.
In the chess game between the two companies, NVIDIA may have made its move too soon. While NVIDIA set a new bar for graphics performance and at a reasonably aggressive price point, AMD now has up to 3 months to adjust its Vega plans accordingly. In the meantime, NVIDIA continues to own the high end of the graphics market. Even at the AMD recent Ryzen launch, the only graphics cards that could fully push AMD’s new eight-core CPUs in games were NVIDIA’s Titan X and GTX 1080 graphic cards.
  Kevin Krewell
Principal Analyst, TIRIAS Research
-- The author and members of the TIRIAS Research staff do not hold equity positions in any of the companies mentioned. TIRIAS Research tracks and consults for companies throughout the electronics ecosystem from semiconductors to systems and sensors to the cloud.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 2.534474372863769

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 2.426969528198242

NVDA price the day of article release: 2.408231735229492