Nvidia Earnings Preview: Will AI Momentum Power Another Blowout Report?

Aug 26, 2025, 06:23am EDT

Nvidia Corp. is scheduled to report earnings after Wednesday’s close. The stock just hit a record high of $184.48/share and is currently trading near $180. The stock is prone to big moves after reporting earnings and can easily gap up if the numbers are strong. Conversely, if the numbers disappoint, the stock can easily gap down. To help you prepare, here is what the Street is expecting:
The company is expected to report a gain of $0.98/share on $45.91 billion in revenue. Meanwhile, the so-called Whisper number is a gain of $1.06/share. The Whisper number is the Street's unofficial view on earnings.
The company’s earnings have grown nicely over the last few years. In 2020, the company earned $0.15/share. In 2021, earnings jumped to $0.25. Then, in 2022 earnings grew to $0.44. In 2023, earnings slid to $0.33 before exploding higher. In 2024, earnings grew to $1.30. In 2025, earnings are expected to grow to $2.99. In 2026, earnings are expected to grow to $4.42 and grow again to $6.03 in 2027! That growth is largely due to the very strong demand for its A.I. and crypto related chips.
Technically, the stock is acting very well and just hit a fresh record high. The stock is trading above its 50 day moving average line (DMA) and above its longer-term 200 day moving average line which are both healthy signs. Furthermore, the stock is “only” 3% below its record high and can easily gap up to new highs if earnings are strong. Conversely, the bears want to see it gap down and fall if earnings fail to impress.
NVIDIA’s earnings are getting a lot of attention because big trends like artificial intelligence, new rules from governments, and global demand could impact the bottom line. Investors want to know if the strong need for AI chips will continue, how export limits and global trading rules will affect sales—especially to places like China—and whether other new technologies might start to matter more for NVIDIA’s business. When results are reported, people will be watching closely to see how these things impact NVIDIA’s future. Here are some questions investors will be asking: Will AI stay a major driver going forward? How will regulations and international markets affect business? Could changes in technology or global demand shift the company’s growth path? How does the crypto market impact earnings?
The stock has has established itself as a true market leader, demonstrating exceptional performance and influence across the tech sector and broader market. NVIDIA has significantly outpaced the overall market, driven by its pivotal role in the artificial intelligence revolution, crypto, and other important areas in our economy.
Market strategists consider NVIDIA "the tell to the market," emphasizing its influence on overall market trends. The company's consistent outperformance, beating revenue estimates in the last several quarters, coupled with analysts' positive long-term outlook, underscores its position as a bellwether for the tech sector and a key driver for the broader market.
Here’s the company profile, according to Yahoo! Finance:
NVIDIA Corporation, a computing infrastructure company, provides graphics and compute and networking solutions in the United States, Singapore, Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, and internationally.
The Compute & Networking segment includes its Data Centre accelerated computing platforms and artificial intelligence solutions and software; networking; automotive platforms and autonomous and electric vehicle solutions; Jetson for robotics and other embedded platforms; and DGX Cloud computing services.
The Graphics segment offers GeForce GPUs for gaming and PCs, the GeForce NOW game streaming service and related infrastructure, and solutions for gaming platforms; Quadro/NVIDIA RTX GPUs for enterprise workstation graphics; virtual GPU or vGPU software for cloud-based visual and virtual computing; automotive platforms for infotainment systems; and Omniverse software for building and operating industrial AI and digital twin applications.
It also offers customized agentic solutions designed in collaboration with NVIDIA to accelerate enterprise AI adoption.
The company's products are used in gaming, professional visualization, data center, and automotive markets. It sells its products to original equipment manufacturers, original device manufacturers, system integrators and distributors, independent software vendors, cloud service providers, consumer internet companies, add-in board manufacturers, distributors, automotive manufacturers and tier-1 automotive suppliers, and other ecosystem participants.
NVIDIA Corporation was incorporated in 1993 and is headquartered in Santa Clara, California.

From where I sit, the most important trait I look for during earnings season is how the market and a specific company reacts to the news. Remember, always keep your losses small and never argue with the tape.






Disclosure: The stock has been featured on FindLeadingStocks.com.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 174.95091247558594

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 179.78012084960938

NVDA price the day of article release: 181.7397918701172