NVIDIA Reinvents The GPU For Artificial Intelligence (AI)

Apr 05, 2016, 01:41pm EDT

At a time when PCs have become rather boring and the market has stagnated, the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) has become more interesting and not for what it has traditionally done (graphical user interface), but for what it can do going forward. GPUs are a key enabler for the PC and workstation market, both for enthusiast seeking to increase graphics performance for games and developers and designers looking to create realistic new videos and images. However, the traditional PC market has been in decline for several years as consumer shift to mobile computing solutions like smartphones. At the same time, the industry has been working to expand the use of GPUs as a computing accelerator because of the massive parallel compute capabilities, often providing the horsepower for top supercomputers. NVIDIA has been a pioneer in this GPU compute market with its CUDA platform, enabling leading researchers to perform leading edge research and continue to develop new uses for GPU acceleration.
Now, the industry is looking to leverage over 40 years of GPU history and innovation to create more advanced computer intelligence. Through the use of sensors, increased connectivity, and new learning technique, researchers can enable artificial intelligence (AI) applications for everything from autonomous vehicles to scientific research. This, however, requires unprecedented levels of computing power, something the NVIDIA is driven to provide. At the GPU Technology Conference (GTC) in San Jose, California, NVIDIA just announced a new GPU platform that takes computing to the extreme. NVIDIA introduced the Telsa P100 platform. NVIDIA CEO Jen-Hsun Huang described the Tesla P100 as the first GPU designed for hyperscale datacenter applications. It features NVIDIA’s new Pascal GPU architecture, the latest memory and semiconductor process, and packaging technology – all to create the densest compute platform to date. Using the industry’s latest 16nm FinFET manufacturing technology, the Tesla P100 features over 15 billion transistors on a 600mm2 die. In addition, it combines 16GB of die stacked second generation High-Bandwidth Memory (HBM2). The memory and GPU are combined into a multichip module on a state-of-the-art silicon substrate. The P100 has NVIDIA’s NVLink interface technology to connect to multiple Tesla P100 GPU modules. And, NVIDIA didn’t stop there. The company also announced its first full server appliance platform dubbed the DGX1.
The DGX1 features two high-end Intel Xeon processors combined with eight Tesla P100 GPU modules in a 3U rack-mountable chassis that is fully configured right out of the box. The system is capable of an incredible 170 teraflops of performance. While the system comes at a hefty $129,000 price tag and a 3500W power budget, it is a fraction of what a comparable traditional CPU based platform. The DGX1 will enable new levels of deep learning for AI applications. The system will be available directly from NVIDIA starting in May.
The irony of the Telsa P100 GPU and DGX1 is that they are have taken GPUs in a completely different direction than the tasks and applications GPUs were originally designed to perform. But, that GPU technology and the CUDA platform have given NVIDIA a competitive edge in the area that will completely redefine the tech industry – AI. In addition, they have paved a growth path for NVIDIA at a time when the outlook for traditional computing look bleak on the back of a sinking PC industry.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 0.8722265958786011

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 0.8763883113861084

NVDA price the day of article release: 0.8751643896102905