Nvidia Increases Commitment To VR With "VR Ready PC Program"

Jan 04, 2016, 12:13pm EST


NVIDIA
 has been talking a lot about VR since the launch of their Maxwell GPU family and more specifically the GTX 980. At that time, VR wasn’t as prominent as it is today. So, it makes sense that NVIDIA is investing, like many in the industry, in VR more than ever before. Much of the industry is convinced that VR is the future of the tech industry, especially those that are involved in the graphics chip business where the majority of VR’s needs come from. NVIDIA and 
Advanced Micro Devices
 both agree that VR requires significant graphics horsepower and industry support and both companies are doing what they can to drive adoption and improve performance. Ultimately the reality is that there is “never enough” GPU horsepower when it comes to VR. This fact is true purely because headsets or head mounted displays (HMDs) will continue to get better and demand more and content will get denser.
NVIDIA has been making major investments into VR with the introduction of their Gameworks VR program which is designed to make game development easier for VR. This is done through NVIDIA’s own APIs for improving performance and latency on various HMDs as well as their own libraries and tools to further help tweak performance and overall improve the experience. The next phase of NVIDIA’s involvement in VR comes through a partnership with some of their system builder partners. NVIDIA has traditionally had a pretty good relationship with most of their system builders that integrate NVIDIA GPUs into gaming machines. NVIDIA already has a the Battlebox program which is designed to help gamers identify systems that are certified by NVIDIA as 4K gaming systems and ready for 4K gaming. This program is designed to help in identifying the best NVIDIA systems for 4K gaming across a broad spectrum of system builders.
With today’s announcement, NVIDIA is announcing a new program that once again harnesses NVIDIA’s partnerships with their system builders to launch a VR-ready program. This VR-ready program is once again designed to help gamers identify the systems that NVIDIA has certified as good enough to earn VR-ready and are going to generally deliver a quality VR experience. This program also helps the system builders market their systems for VR and increase the awareness of which machines consumers should be buying for the purpose of VR. It also incorporates the many aspects of NVIDIA’s involvement in VR which include the Maxwell GPU architecture inside of the graphics cards as well as the GameWorks VR and DesignWorks VR software tools that help designers make games and VR-ready as a whole possible.
NVIDIA says that a great VR experience demands seven times the graphics processing power of traditional 3D games and experiences, which is probably not far from reality when you consider that VR headsets needs even higher refresh rates than standard 60 Hz monitors and need to render two images simultaneously and perform additional graphical calculations in order to properly render the images for VR, like correcting barrel distortion. This eventually drives system builders and consumers to gravitate towards much faster GPUs and ultimately should drive more demand for GPUs as VR grows and gains more prominence.
Currently, NVIDIA has three primary partners that are part of the VR-ready program- Alienware, Maingear and MSI. What’s interesting is that Alienware and MSI are both very big system builders, with MSI being extremely gaming laptop heavy and Alienware owning both desktops and laptops. Maingear is a smaller boutique builder that builds very unique and expensive machines that are basically works of art. However, there are still a few major players in the space that are missing the space. Namely, Origin PC, iBuypower, Cyberpower and Cybertron. (UPDATE: the program does include Origin PC, iBuypower, Cyberpower and Cybertron.)
I believe that having VR-ready machines is certainly a good thing for consumers and for marketing VR effectively to consumers. Many consumer segments need a little hand holding and a badging program should help educate those who just want to play and not figure it out. NVIDIA will need to get more system builders onboard to really make this program an effective marketing and sales tool and I would expect them to do this if they make the first round successful. I’m sure they picked the few they thought could be most successful out of the gate.
VR has a lot of challenges that are not easy to solve and there is no doubt that NVIDIA is working hard to help solve them, one of those problems is making sure that systems are properly configured to support adequate experiences, which is why NVIDIA’s VR-ready program makes so much sense. They will hopefully, with broader adoption, be able to simplify the buying decision for those looking to pair a VR HMD with a sufficient gaming PC to give them the best possible VR experience. It will be a slow process, but it should eventually yield more demand for faster and more powerful GPUs, which is never a bad thing for a graphics company like NVIDIA.
Disclosure: My firm, Moor Insights & Strategy, like all research and analyst firms, provides or provided research, analysis, advising, and/or consulting to many high-tech companies in the industry, including Advanced Micro Devices, NVIDIA all cited this article. I do not hold any equity positions with any companies cited in this column.
Note: Anshel Sag, staff technologist at Moor Insights & Strategy, contributed to this article.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 0.8214976191520691

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 0.8039358258247375

NVDA price the day of article release: 0.7895450592041016