Nvidia Increases Desktop GPU Market Share Again During Q2, Despite Multiple AMD Radeon Releases

Aug 19, 2015, 12:11pm EDT

Despite the release of AMD's undeniably attractive liquid-cooled Radeon Fury X graphics card, completely new GPU architecture, and form-factor-slimming High-Bandwidth Memory, Nvidia still managed to increase their dominance over AMD in the 2nd quarter of 2015. In fact, Nvidia increased their lead more substantially than they did between Q4 2014 and Q1 2015, with the company now sitting at 82% desktop GPU market share, up from 77% last quarter.
The graphic above which contains data compiled by Mercury Research is making the rounds this morning, seemingly from an Nvidia press deck. I don't doubt its validity, as I'm poised to be briefed by Nvidia later this morning on their GeForce business.
Any way you approach it, this is disappointing news for AMD, especially after hedging their bets on next-generation HBM as a key selling point for the Radeon Fury X (and later the Fury, though that released outside the Q2 2015 window). But is it really as shocking as it appears on the surface?
On paper and during the E3 press events leading up to the Fury X launch, the new card had everything going for it. An exciting new Fiji architecture, fast High-Bandwidth Memory, and something AMD had been lacking for years: a genuinely sexy hardware design complimented by integrated liquid cooling. It launched with a $649 price tag to directly challenge Nvidia's 980 Ti.
AMD wanted you to believe that Fury X was a 980 Ti-killer, but their internal benchmark results didn't hold water when the card was released to tech reviewers. The Fury X was also handicapped by a hard limitation of the first generation of High-Bandwidth Memory: a ceiling of 4GB. While I found very little to suggest that was a true bottleneck, it didn't look good on paper stacked next to the 6GB of VRAM in Nvidia's 980 Ti. Importantly, it didn't inspire confidence in consumers, as enthusiasts know that while 4GB is adequate today, it's anything but future proof especially with regards to 4K gaming.
Don't get me wrong, Fury X is still a cool, quiet, fantastic card, but in order to slice into Nvidia's dominance, it needed to obliterate the 980 Ti, and it failed to do so. That said, perhaps it's worth revisiting those Fury X benchmarks now that the drivers are more mature.
Compounding matters was the sheer scarcity of Fury X. It was nearly impossible to find on store shelves, and my suspicion is that this was -- and is -- potentially caused by low HBM yields.
Only weeks prior to the Fury X launch, you had people flocking to Nvidia's 980 Ti, which skirted dangerously close to the performance of a Titan X for a whopping $350 less. Regardless of sales numbers, the buzz was deafening and the perceived value of the 980 Ti was well documented.
But Fury X wasn't the only new product from AMD during this window. The company launched the Radeon 300 series. An entire lineup of refreshed video cards with several notable improvements over the 200 series. The Radeon 390x, in particular, represented a terrific value at $429 and I've found that it matches or surpasses Nvidia's $499 GTX 980 in the majority of high-profile, graphically demanding games out there. In my internal testing that pattern gets passed down to products like the Radeon 390 and Radeon 380, which both reinforce AMD's tendency to offer compelling bang-for-buck value.
You can argue that the Fury X launched in the middle of June, and scarcity led to lower than expected sales. But the reality is that the Radeon 300 series -- targeted at a wide range of budgets and gamer demographics -- should have made the real difference. There was an array of affordable and attainable SKUs within.
I'm sure even the hardest of hardcore Nvidia fans expected this onslaught of new product to put at least a minor dent in Nvidia's desktop market share dominance, but it hasn't happened yet. This can be chalked up to multiple reasons like the scarcity of Fury X and -- if whispered rumors are to be believed -- less resources available to AMD in the marketing department. This could affect not just the number of press outlets that get seeded with review samples, but the timeliness of said samples.
Here's a bit of inside baseball to support that theory. Now, this happened outside the Q2 window, but when the Fury (non-X) launched, one AMD card manufacturer told me they'd been allotted a total of 3 cards to sample to press in both the US and Canada. I received mine directly from another reviewer who had wrapped up his testing. It's not hard to project the impact of that: Less outlets receive product, less gets written, and the product receives less cumulative impressions.
  It's all speculation obviously, and even the most accurate speculation doesn't change the cold reality of this data. Despite AMD's best efforts (and I really do believe the Fury X is one of their best efforts in years), Nvidia continues to widen the gap. Perhaps in Q3 we'll see that AMD has regained some percentage points as sales of the Fury (it deserves all the praise it's getting) and continued sales of the Radeon 300 series emerge.
Perhaps more troubling than any of this is how much market share AMD has conceded since the middle of 2014. Perhaps DirectX 12 will help them reverse course?
I'd love to hear your thoughts on this. Let's talk about it on Twitter or right here in the comments.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 0.5696015954017639

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 0.5608205795288086

NVDA price the day of article release: 0.5586337447166443