Crunching The Numbers: AMD's Radeon 380 Edges Out Nvidia GTX 960 As New 1080p Champ

Aug 03, 2015, 03:12pm EDT

When Nvidia launched their GTX 960 graphics card, it traded blows with AMD's Radeon 285 at the all-important $200 mainstream pricepoint. Ultimately we had to look beyond pure performance, with Team Green claiming the victory based on deciding factors like operating temperatures, performance-per-watt, and an exclusive advantage Nvidia had at the time: G-Sync.
Fast forward 5 months and AMD's G-Sync competitor, FreeSync, is widely available with a variety of models and resolutions represented. Plus, AMD's Radeon 300 series has launched, which means the Radeon 285's Tonga GPU gets improved and reincarnated as the Radeon 380.
That sets the stage for a new battle for the 1080p gaming crown. Today we're looking at the same Asus Strix 960 used in my original review, but pitting it against the new MSI R9 380 Gaming. Both of these video cards retail for about $209, both leave the factory with a healthy overclock, and both have 2GB of GDDR5 video memory. It's certainly a fair fight. (Don't worry about that 2GB VRAM ceiling, it's still plenty for 108op gaming. But if you want to graduate up to 1440p in the near future, consider 4GB VRAM variants of each card which also have similar price tags.)
As always, I'm using my dedicated graphics card test bench, with one minor update being the recent upgrade to Windows 10. Here's what it's packing, and the respective drivers being used:
Since the headline already spoiled the outcome, it's worth highlighting that for this series of benchmarks, 3 of the 5 games tested have an Nvidia "The Way It's Meant To Be Played" logo gracing their opening splash screens. 2 of those 3 (such as Far Cry 4 and Metro: Last Light Redux) are Nvidia-optimized titles. Why do this? Merely to prove a point and punctuate the importance of the victory here. AMD and Nvidia have both made great strides in driver-level performance improvements, but having the logos of each respective graphics company gracing our favorite games may not carry as much weight as it once did.
Synthetic Benchmarks: 3DMark Fire Strike & Unigine Heaven 4
3DMark's Fire Strike test is a synthetic benchmark that will outright punish systems with a number of graphics-related technologies such as ambient occlusion, physics, and depth of field. And while synthetics tests like this aren't a replacement for testing real-world gaming performance, they are a reliable gauge of a video card's potential and a reflection of its place in the competitive landscape.
As longtime readers will note, I've expanded my Fire Strike reports to include not just the overall score, but also the separate graphics and physics scores.
We normally expect Nvidia to have an edge in the physics department, but the Radeon 380 keeps up here (the difference is well within the margin of error for 3DMark), and combined with graphics superiority, AMD takes the win for overall Fire Strike score. When I pitted the Radeon 285 against the GTX 960 earlier this year, AMD's lead was marginal. Not so now. It's clear that the Radeon 380 is more than just a "rebadged" Radeon 285.
Next, we'll check out Unigine's Heaven 4.0 benchmark. Heaven features liberal use of tessellation technology and screen-space ambient occlusion -- both features that have the potential to bring graphics cards to their knees when really cranked up. And crank it up I did. The test below incorporates all the eye candy Heaven can throw at you: Ultra quality, Extreme tessellation, and 8x Anti-aliasing.
AMD once again takes the win, admittedly not by much in the average FPS department, but the 380 performs better when glancing at minimum framerates. This result is also notable because historically, Nvidia normally has stronger tessellation performance, a feature Heaven focuses heavily on.
1080p Gaming Performance
1440p and 4K benchmarks are a blast to run, but the vast majority of PC gamers are still rocking 1920 x 1080, and since that's the target audience for these cards, we'll be concentrating solely on that resolution.
First let's check out two Nvidia-optimized titles, Far Cry 4 and Metro: Last Light Redux.
MSI's Radeon 380 barely squeaks out a win with Far Cry 4, but both cards perform admirably -- I mean really admirably -- with respect to maintaining great minimum framerates. Metro: Last Light Redux, which leans on PhysX and advanced depth of field effects as part of its stunning engine, clearly favors AMD's latest hardware. In fact, the GTX 960 plummets down to a minimum 5FPS.
Let's round up the other in-game benchmarks, which include Grand Theft Auto V, Tomb Raider, and Middle Earth: Shadow of Mordor.
The Asus Strix 960 claims its only victory with Rockstar's GTA V PC port, with the shameful minimum framerates this time coming courtesy of MSI's Radeon 380. Meanwhile, we get an incredibly tight race with Tomb Raider, and AMD pulls out well in front with Shadow of Mordor.
Power Consumption & Closing Thoughts
I'm not shy about praising Nvidia's power-sipping Maxwell architecture. It's well deserved praise. So it's no great surprise that the 960 exhibits lower idle and load power consumption. But the differences aren't as dramatic as they used to be, with AMD's claims about massaging better power efficiency from the Radeon 300 series mostly ringing true.
Yes, MSI's Radeon 380 is larger and requires more power, while the Asus Strix 960 is still a beautiful little card with excellent performance-per-watt. But the convincing advantages Nvidia had when the GTX 960 first debuted have been eroded by AMD's beefed-up Tonga and the recent proliferation of FreeSync-compatible monitors.
Both companies have stable Windows 10 drivers (which, by the way, seem to be providing about a 5% to 8% performance boost over Windows 8.1 on otherwise identical systems). Both companies have game-setting optimization and DVR software, though my recommendation still goes to Nvidia's GeForce Experience/Shadowplay combo.
With the Radeon 380 outperforming the GTX 960, having improved power efficiency, and both companies now selling awesome dynamic refresh rate monitor solutions with G-Sync and FreeSync, the new 1080p champ shifts from the 960 to the 380 -- at least with respect to these specific vendor cards. And FreeSync is really the deciding factor for me. When the GTX 960 released and it locked horns with the Radeon 285, what put me firmly in the 960's court was the prospect of using G-Sync for tear-free, stutter-free gaming. In the last few months, however, AMD leveled the playing field in that regard (note that FreeSync monitors are more affordable than GSync ones, and that's an important consideration for new customers), as well as massaged even more performance out of Tonga.
  This round goes to AMD, unless power efficiency is at the top of your priority list.

NVDA price 3 days before article release: 0.4832177758216858

NVDA price 1 day before article release: 0.4827337563037872

NVDA price the day of article release: 0.4909609258174896